VERSION: JANUARY 15TH 2025














WRO(r) 2025






WRO international premium partner






WRO international gold partners

Table of Contents
1. General information	3
2. Team and Age Groups definitions	4
3. Responsibilities and team's own work	4
4. Game documents and rule hierarchy	5
5. Game Description and Game Field	6
6. Surprise Rule	8
7. Engineer's documentation on GitHub	8
8. Challenge rounds	10
9. Specific Game Rules	16
10. Scoring	20
11. Vehicle material & regulations	22
12. Competition Format & Rules	23
13. Game table and equipment	25
14. Glossary	28
Appendix A: Explanatory schemes	29
Appendix B: Game field for national/regional finals	42
Appendix C: Engineering journal evaluation	43
Appendix D: Minimal set of electromechanical components	47

Updates on the general rules from 2024 to 2025
Substantial changes and additions in the rules are marked in yellow. The biggest changes are:
* Extend allowed age to 22 years
* Reintroducing the randomization process
* Remove turning around in the last round
* Adjusting rules around (parallel) parking
Please note, that during the season there might be clarifications or additions to the rules by the official WRO Questions & Answers. The answers are seen as addition to the rules. You can find the WRO 2025 Q&A on this page: https://wro-association.org/competition/questions- answers/


1. General information

Introduction
In the WRO Future Engineers category teams need to focus on all parts of the engineering process. The teams get points for documenting their process and making a public GitHub repository. Every year a 20 to 30% change will be made to the challenges. The whole challenge will change every 4-5 years.

In the Self-Driving Cars challenge a robotic vehicle needs to drive autonomously on a parkours that randomly changes for each competition round.

Focus Areas
Every WRO category has a special focus on learning with robots. In the WRO Future Engineers category, students will focus on developing in the following areas:

- Use of computer vision and sensor fusion to estimate the state of the parkours and the vehicle itself.
- A working vehicle with open-source hardware such as electromechanical components and controllers.
- Action planning and control of robots with moving parts and kinematics different from the differential drive (e.g., steering).
- Optimal strategies to solve the mission, including stability of mission solving.
- Teamwork, communication, problem solving, project management, creativity.
- An Engineering journal to show progress and design strategies.

For teams that are interested in participating in this category a Getting Starting guide was created. This guide explains more about the vehicle requirements, possible technical solution, and errors. Here students can start to get an idea of how-to setup a vehicle for this competition. Look at the Getting Started guide here!

Learning is most important
WRO wants to inspire students around the world for STEM related subjects and we want the students to develop their skills through playful learning in our competitions. Therefore, the following aspects are key for all our competition programs:
* Teachers, parents, or other adults can help, guide, and inspire the team, but are not allowed to build or code/program the robot.
* Teams, coaches, and judges accept our WRO Guiding Principles and WRO Ethics Code to ensure a fair and rewarding competition for all.
* On a competition day, Teams and Coaches respect the final decision judges take and work with other teams and judges on a fair competition.

More information on the WRO Ethics Code you find here: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code


2. Team and Age Groups definitions

2.1. A team consists of 2 or 3 students.
2.2. A team is guided by a coach.
2.3. 1 team member and 1 coach are not considered a team and cannot participate.
2.4. A team may only participate in one of the WRO categories in a season.
2.5. Any student may participate in one team only.
2.6. The minimum age of a coach at an international event is 18 years old.
2.7. Coaches may work with more than one team.
2.8. The age group for this category is defined for students in the age of 14 - 22 years old.  (In season 2025: born years 2003-2011)
2.9. The maximum age reflects the age that the participant turns in the calendar year of the competition, not his/her age at the competition day.

3. Responsibilities and team's own work

3.1. A team should play fair and be respectful towards teams, coaches, judges, and competition organizers. By competing in WRO, teams and coaches accept the WRO Guiding Principles that can be found at: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code.
3.2. Every team and coach need to undersign the WRO Ethics Code. The organizer of the competition will define how the Ethics Code is collected and signed.
3.3. Coding of the vehicle and its construction (if applicable) may be done only by the team. The task of the coach is to accompany the team organizationally and to support them in advance in case of questions or problems, but not to do programming of the vehicle and its construction (if applicable) themselves. This applies to both the day of the competition and the preparation for the competition.
3.4. A team is not allowed to communicate in any way with people outside of the competition area while the competition is running. If communication is necessary, a judge may allow team members to communicate with others under supervision of a judge.
3.5. Team members are not allowed to bring and use mobile phones or any other communication device into the competition area.
3.6. Destruction or tampering with competition courts/tables, materials, or vehicles of other teams is prohibited.
3.7. It is not allowed to use a vehicle's control program that is (a.) the same or too similar to solutions sold online or (b.) the same or too similar to another solution at the competition and clearly not the own work of the team. This includes solutions from teams of the same institution and/or country. Robot vehicles built from modular building kits and components will be checked for plagiarism. Since manufactured vehicles/sets can be used in the competition, these vehicles will not be checked for plagiarism.
3.8. If there is a suspicion in relation to rule 3.3 and 3.7, the team will be subjection for investigation and any consequences as mentioned in 3.9 can apply. Especially in these cases rule 3.9.4 may be used to not allow this team to progress to the next competition, even if the team would win the competition with the solution that is likely not their own.


3.9. If any of the rules mentioned in this document are broken or violated, the judges can decide on one or more of the following consequences. Before, a team or individual team members may be interviewed to find out more about the possible violation of the rules. This can include questions about the vehicle or the program.
3.9.1. A team may not be allowed to participate in one or more challenge rounds.
3.9.2. A team may get up to a 50% reduced score in one or more challenge rounds.
3.9.3. A team may not qualify for the next round of the tournament.
3.9.4. A team may not qualify for the national / international final.
3.9.5. A team may be disqualified completely from the competition


4. Game documents and rule hierarchy

4.1. Every year, WRO publishes a new version of general rules for this category including the concrete description of the self-driving vehicle game. These rules are the basis for all international WRO events.
4.2. During a season, WRO may publish additional Question & Answers (Q&As) that can clarify, extend, or re-define rules in game and general rule documents. Teams should read these Q&A's before the competition.
4.3. The general rule document and Q&A's may be different in a country due to local adaptations through the National Organizer. Teams need to inform themselves about the rules that apply in their country. For any international WRO event, only the information WRO has published is relevant. Teams that qualified for any international WRO event should inform themselves about possible differences to their local rules.
4.4. At the competition day, the following rule hierarchy applies:
4.4.1. General rule document builds the basis for rules in this category.
4.4.2. Questions & Answers (Q&A's) can overwrite rules in game and general rule documents.
4.4.3. The head judge on the competition day has the final word in any decision.

5. Game Description and Game Field

The self-driving car challenges in this season are Time Attack races: there will not be multiple cars at the same time on the track. Instead, one car per attempt will try to achieve the best time by driving several laps fully autonomously. The two challenges are the following:
Open Challenge: The vehicle must complete three (3) laps on the track with random placements of the inside track walls.
Obstacle Challenge: The vehicle must complete three (3) laps on the track with randomly placed green and red traffic signs. The traffic signs indicate the side of the lane the vehicle must follow. The traffic sign to keep to the right side of the lane is a red pillar. The traffic sign to keep to the left side of the lane is a green pillar. The vehicle should not move any of the traffic signs. After the robot completed the three rounds, it has to find the parking lot and has to perform parallel parking.
The starting direction in which the car must drive on the track (clockwise or counter clockwise) will vary in different challenge rounds. The starting section of the car as well as the number and location of traffic signs are randomly defined before the round (after the check time). The following graphic shows the game field with the game objects.

Figure 1: Detailed game field


The game field represents a racetrack where traffic signs (represented by the coloured obstacles
- pillars) are set up.
The track consists of eight sections: four corner sections and four straightforward sections. Corner sections are marked with red dashed lines on the next Figure. Straightforward sections are marked with blue dashed lines.



Figure 2: Different types of sections on the game field
Every straightforward section is divided into 6 zones. Six internal zones within the section are for starting position of the car. 4 T-intersections and 2 X-intersections are used to position the traffic signs. The places where the traffic signs can be set up are called traffic signs' seats.

Figure 3: Zones and traffic signs' seats in the straightforward section


In the obstacle challenge a parking lot is placed in the straight forward section that is used to  start the robot. The width of the parking lot is always 20 cm. The length is variable and calculated: 1,5 * length of the robot
The parking lot is limited by two wood elements with 20 cm x 2 cm x 10 cm in magenta. The right element is placed right next to the dotted line. The position of the left one is defined as described above.

Figure 4: Definition of size of the parking lot


6. Surprise Rule
A surprise rule for the international competition can be announced before the International Final. This rule can add / modify / change existing rules and the qualified teams would have time to prepare before the event.


7. Engineer's documentation on GitHub

Real engineering is about creating a solution and communicating or sharing the idea with others to bring the whole idea a step further. In addition to designing and programming the vehicle, teams must provide documentation that presents their engineering progress, the final vehicle design and final vehicle source code. This documentation must be uploaded to the GitHub public repository, and a hardcopy must be submitted at the international final. Details about the scoring of the documentation can be found in Appendix C of this document. For the international competition, all information and documentation on GitHub must be done in English.


Each team must provide the following:
* Discussion, information and motivation for the vehicle's mobility, power and sense, and obstacle management.
* Photos of the vehicle (from every side, from top and bottom), and a team photo.
* URL to YouTube (should be either public or accessible by link) showing the vehicle driving autonomously. That part of the video where driving demonstration exists, must be at least 30 seconds in length. One video for each challenge must be provided.
* Link to a GitHub public repository with the code for all components which were programmed to participate in the competition. The repository may also include the files for models used by 3D printers, laser cutting machines and CNC machines to produce the vehicle elements. The history of commits should contain at least 3 commits:
* the first commit not later than 2 months before the competition - it must contain not less than 1/5 of the final amount of the code.
* The second commit not later than 1 month before the competition,
* The third commit not later than 2 weeks before the competition.
* More commits are allowed.
The repository must contain a README.md file with a short description in English (not less than 5000 characters) of the designed solution. The goal of the description is to clarify which modules the code consists of, how they are related to the electromechanical components of the vehicle, and what is the process to build/compile/upload the code to the vehicle's controllers. A template for the GitHub repos is available on https://github.com/World-Robot-Olympiad-Association/wro2022-fe-template.
The repository has to be public from the moment when it is submitted for an international competition and has to stay public at least 12 months after the competition. The idea of Future Engineers is to encourage new teams and support them in finding existing solutions and get inspired by them. If a repository is not public before the event, the team will get reduced points for the documentation. WRO Association has the right to republish the repository at any time.
* GitHub repositories must be set for public viewing and the content must be visible.
* Code provided on GitHub and Hard Copy must be well documented with comments in the code. Judges might not have access to the specific programs used by teams to develop their code, e.g. EV3, Spike or Scratch.

8. Challenge rounds

For the International Final there will be at least four rounds, two for the Open Challenge and two for the Obstacle Challenge. The direction for each challenge round, the starting position, and the layout of the track will be chosen randomly. The direction in which the vehicle must move during the challenges is defined as the challenge driving direction.
Open Challenge rounds
During Open Challenge rounds, the racetrack will have no traffic signs.

Figure 5: The game field for challenge one rounds
The distance between the track borders could be either 1000 mm or 600 mm (+/- 100 mm for the International Final).

Figure 6: Examples of the game field variation for Open Challenge rounds


After choosing the direction to drive the track the following procedure could be used to determine the car starting point and the distance between the track borders:
1. Toss the coin twice to determine the starting section. The figure below shows which section corresponds to which combination of tosses (e.g., "tails & heads" means that the first toss is tails and the second one is heads).

Figure 7a. Coin toss combinations to determine the starting section
2. Toss the coin four times to determine the section where distance between the track borders will be reduced. The first toss is for the starting section, the second one is for the next section in a clockwise direction and so on. Heads means a wide corridor; tails mean a narrow corridor.
























































































Figure 7b. The left scheme is for the toss results "tails-heads-tails-tails".
The right scheme is for the toss results "heads-heads-tails-tails"
3. Roll a dice to determine the exact starting zone. The top left zone is for "1", the bottom right zone is for "6". If the zone is inside of the border wall, the dice should be rolled again.



Figure 7c. Zone correspondence to the die faces
This procedure will be performed after the check time before every qualifying round so the starting position of the car and the distances between the track borders are different in every challenge round.


Obstacle Challenge rounds
During Obstacle Challenge rounds, the red and green pillars will be set up on the racetrack as the traffic signs. In addition, two boundaries will be placed and form a parking lot. The distance between the track borders will be always 1000 mm (+/- 10 mm for the International Final).

The starting section of the car, the positions of the coloured pillars and the position of the parking lot could be chosen by the following procedure (assuming that the round driving direction was determined separately):
1. Toss the coin twice to determine a section where the single traffic sign will be located. The figure below shows which section corresponds to which combination of tosses (e.g., "tails & heads" means that the first toss is tails and the second one is heads).






h





s









eads
& head












tails
& h
eads

head
s &
tails



tails
& tails















Figure 8b. Coin toss combinations to determine a section with single traffic sign
2. Toss the coin once to determine the colour of the traffic sign in the section defined in the previous step. Heads mean a green sign; the tails mean a red sign.
3. Get 36 cards as on the figure 11 and remove the card 9 or 10 from the set depending on the colour of the sign chosen on the previous step: if the green sign was chosen, remove the 9th card; if the red sign was chosen, remove the 10th card. Put the 35 cards into a non- transparent box or bag. Take one card from the box - it will determine locations of the traffic signs in the straightforward section next (considered clockwise) after the section determined in the previous step. The thick black line on the card means the inner border of the game field. The card must not be returned to the box. Take again a second card - it will determine locations of the traffic signs in the next straightforward section. Repeat these actions for the remaining straightforward sections.









		










36


Figure 8c. 36 cards with position of traffic signs within a section

** Duplications of some of the cards is intentional.


4. The parking lot will always be placed in the starting section. Determine the position of the starting section (including the parking lot) by another pair of coin tosses.

Figure 8d. Coin toss for parking lot
After the parking lot is placed, all traffic signs in that section, will be moved to the positions closer to the inner wall.

Figure 8e. Moving of traffic lights based on the position of parking lot.


The Team decides if it wants to start the robot from within the parking lot or in the middle zone above the parking lot (see figure 8a). Starting in the parking lot will score additional points.

9. Specific Game Rules

Challenge Round Timing
9.1. Open Challenge rounds will be three minutes in length.
9.2. Obstacle Challenge rounds will be three minutes in length.

Start Configuration
9.3. The direction to drive the track is chosen randomly before each Challenge round in the series, after the check time.
9.4. The starting position of the vehicle and the field configuration are determined before starting every round, after the check time.
9.5. The direction to drive, starting position, and the field configuration remain the same for all teams during the same round.

Round Start
9.6. The vehicle is placed in the starting zone totally SWITCHED OFF!
9.7. The position of the vehicle in the starting zone must be so the projection of the car on the game mat is completely within the start zone.
9.8. The vehicle must be oriented so that the two wheels on the front axle (the judges must ask the team in advance which is axle is a front one) are located closer to the next corner section in the round driving direction whereas other two wheels are located closer to the corner section in opposite direction.
9.9. Physical adjustments can be made (this is part of the preparation time). However, it is not allowed to enter data to a program by changing positions or orientation of the vehicle parts or to make any sensor calibrations on the vehicle. It is not allowed to enter data by changing the switches configuration, if any. If a team does enter data through physical adjustments, it will be disqualified for that round.
9.10. The vehicle is then switched on. Only one switch is allowed to switch the vehicle on.
9.11. After vehicle is switched on, the vehicle should then be in a waiting state. Waiting for a Start button to be pressed. The Start button could be on the main SBC/SBM or a separately installed Push Button. Only one Start button is allowed. On an EV3, only one program will be allowed. The run button must be pressed to start the last program that was run on the EV3. The EV3 must then wait for a start button to be pressed. The start button on the EV3 can be a touch sensor or the right arrow button. On a Spike robot only Slot One can be used. The same procedure for the EV3 must be followed.
9.12. It is the responsibility of the team to check the layout of the racetrack and make sure it is correct. The judge will ask if the team is ready. The team must answer Yes to show their acceptance of the racetrack layout. No re-starts will be allowed if the team realised after the start, that the racetrack layout was not correct.
9.13. A judge gives the signal to start the vehicle. Judge will count "Three, two, one, Go". On the "Go" command the starting button is then pressed and the time for the attempt is started. The vehicle will have the amount of time to complete the round that is mentioned in the Game Rules.
9.14. Pressing the start button must start the vehicle action to attempt the challenge round and the vehicle should start moving.



Additional Pieces
9.15. The vehicle is not allowed to leave additional pieces on the game field or leave marks that are not removable (e.g., paint) during the round intentionally. If the vehicle violates this rule, the round will be stopped, and the vehicle must be stopped by one of the team's members. The score for this round will be zero and the time mark will be the maximum. The judges have the right to inspect the team's code if they suspect such a situation.
During the Round
9.16. The vehicle must drive in the direction that was defined as the challenge driving direction before the challenge start.
9.17. The vehicle's dimensions must not exceed 300x200 mm and 300 mm in height.
9.18. The vehicle is not allowed to move the walls (if they are not completely fixed on the field). The vehicle that violates this rule will be stopped by one of the team's members, the score for this round will be zero and time mark will be the maximum. If the vehicle touches or bumps the walls, and the walls are not moved, the vehicle may continue the round, and no penalties will be incurred. If the vehicle bumps or touches the walls and the vehicle stops, as a result of bumping or touching, a repairing action can be done, and penalties will be incurred. During the open challenge rounds the vehicle may not touch the outer boundary wall.
9.19. The vehicle must pass the traffic sign represented by the red pillar on the right (the picture a) and the traffic sign represented by the green pillar on the left (the picture b). The appendix A section 5 defines, when a traffic light was passed on the wrong side and how it is scored.


(a)	(b)
Figure 9: The rules to pass the traffic signs
9.20. The vehicle is allowed to touch, move or knock down the traffic signs (coloured pillars) while the projection of the traffic sign is within the circle drawn around the traffic sign's seat. For more details refer to Appendix A, section 1.
9.21. The vehicle is allowed to drive in the direction opposite to the round driving direction for two sections only: the section where the direction was changed and the neighbouring section.
9.22. The vehicle must return to the starting section after driving three laps to get additional points. Note: as soon as the vehicle partially leaves the starting section this section also becomes the finish section.
9.23. Once per round the team can ask permission for repairing actions: to take the vehicle


out, fix the issue with mechanical or electronic parts, and put the vehicle back to the track in the centre of the section the vehicle was taken out of. The vehicle may be switched off when it is removed from the track. The vehicle may be switched on after it is put down on the track. The vehicle may then be switched on and put into motion again by pressing the start button. The round timer will not be stopped for the repairing action. The permission can be granted only if the vehicle has stopped. Possible reasons for the stop, are issues with electronics/mechanics or because the vehicle hit the wall and is stuck, or the vehicle just stops for no reason. The permission will not be granted for a moving vehicle - if any of its parts drives for approximately 50 mm in 5 seconds. The permission will not be granted if the vehicle has started the third lap (completely passed the corner section before the last lap). It is not allowed to upload programs on any controller of the vehicle as part of repairing actions. It is not allowed to enter any data.
The team that violates these rules will be disqualified from this round: the score for this round will be zero and the time mark will be the maximum.

Round End:
9.24. The round ends and time is stopped if any of the following conditions occurs:
9.24.1. The round timer expires.
9.24.2. In Open Challenge: After three complete laps the vehicle stops in the finish section so that the projection of the vehicle on the field is completely within the section. For more details refer to Appendix A, section 2.
Note 1: the vehicle must stop in the finish section autonomously. If team participant forces the end of the round by using one of the methods described below when the vehicle is within the finish section, this will not be considered an autonomous stop and points for stopping in the finish section will not be assigned.
Note 2: to demonstrate a complete stop in the finish section, the vehicle must not continue driving after 15 seconds. If after the end of the round the vehicle continues moving, judges could find the behaviour of the vehicle ambiguous and may not assign a point for the stop in the finish section.
9.24.3. In Open Challenge: After three complete laps the vehicle passes the finish section so that its projection on the mat is completely within the corner section next to the finish section in the round driving direction. For more details refer to Appendix A, section 3. The vehicle crosses section boundaries twice while driving in the direction which is opposite to the round driving direction. For more details refer to Appendix A, section 4.
9.24.4. In Obstacle Challenge: After 3 rounds have been completed correctly, the vehicle stops. Either in the correct section or in the parking lot.
9.24.5. In Obstacle Challenge: After passing a traffic sign from the incorrect side, the vehicle completely crosses the line which goes from the inner border to the outer border and where this traffic sign is located. For more details refer to Appendix A, section 5.
9.24.6. In Obstacle Challenge: The robot moved a traffic sign outside of the circle.
9.24.7. In Obstacle Challenge: The robot touches the parking lot limitations.
9.24.8. The vehicle's dimensions still exceed the limit, after 3-minute repairing time.
9.24.9. Any team member touches the vehicle without the judge's permission for repairing actions.
9.24.10. Any team member touches the field mat and wall without the judge's permission


for repairing actions.
9.24.11. Any team member touches the game elements.
9.24.12. The vehicle drives outside of the track (by moving the wall) or outside of the game field.
9.24.13. The vehicle or team member damages the field or a game element.
9.25. Notice that, according to the above rules, the team can stop their attempt (e.g., by touching the field wall or doing any of the above rules). However, they will not be able to resume the attempt after the stop and the round will be ended.
9.26. The judges will base their decisions on the rules and fair game play. They have the final decision on the competition day. If there is any uncertainty during the task completion, the judges will bias their decision to the worst outcome available for the context of the situation,

10. Scoring

10.1. The official score will be calculated at the end of each challenge round.
10.2. The maximum score is calculated as follow:
10.2.1. 30 points for the Open Challenge round. (1.1 + 1.2 + 1.3)
10.2.2. 62 points for the Obstacle Challenge round. (1.1 + 1.2 + 1.3 and either 1.4 (or 1.5) or
1.6 (or 1.7) + 1.8)
10.2.3. 30 points for the engineering journal documentation
10.2.4. Maximum score is 122. (� 75% vehicle performance and � 25% documentation)


Requirements
Point value
  Total available
1.
Driving Open and Obstacle Challenge


1.1.
The vehicle drives from a section in the challenge driving direction.
This is applicable for the starting section, but not applicable for the finish section and other section next after it.
1
24


1.2.
The vehicle drives a full lap. 8 sections were passed successfully in the challenge driving direction. The starting section is included in the eight sections for the first lap. The lap is considered as completed if the vehicle completely drives out of the last (corner) section in the lap. So, the vehicle can start moving in the opposite
direction after this and the lap will be still considered.


1


3
1.3.
After the completion of three laps the vehicle stopped in the finish section.
3
3

Additional points for Obstacle Challenge rounds:



Not completed three laps


1.4
One or more traffic signs were moved. Vehicle must complete at least one round to qualify for score.
2
2
1.5.
The traffic signs were not moved. Vehicle must complete at least one round to qualify for score.
4
4

After the completion of three laps


1.6
One or more traffic signs were moved.
8
8
1.7
No traffic signs were moved.
10
10
1.8.1
Vehicle started within the parking lot
7
7
1.8.2
Parking successfully (completely in the parking area and parallel)
15
15
1.8.3
Parking partly or not parallel in the parking area
7
7
2.
The team performed repairing actions by taking the vehicle out of the field even if the actions were not successful.
Total round points divided by
factor 2

3.
Engineering journal and vehicle documentation
Refer to appendix C for a breakdown of the engineering journal scoring.


30

10.3. The time measured by a judge, the moment of the open challenge round ends, is written down and will be later used to identify the best round. If a team or vehicle was disqualified for the challenge round, the maximum time (3 minutes) is given for such a challenge round.
10.4. The score calculation is done by the judges at the conclusion of each challenge round. The team must verify and sign the score sheet after the round if they have no fair complaints.


10.5. The teams' ranks for Open Challenge rounds are based on points each team received in their best Open Challenge rounds. If a team has the same score in both rounds, the round with the smallest time will be chosen as the best Open Challenge round.
10.6. All teams will compete in both challenge rounds.
10.7. The teams' ranks for overall competition are built based on the sum of each team's points received in the best Open Challenge round, points received in the best Obstacle Challenge round and points received for the engineering journal and vehicle documentation. If a team has the same score in both Obstacle Challenge rounds, the round with the quickest time will be chosen as the best Obstacle Challenge round.
10.8. If there is a tie between two teams, ranking will be determined by considering the following results (the first in the list is the highest priority, the last in the list is the lowest priority):
10.8.1. Sum of points received in Open Challenge round, points received in the Obstacle Challenge round and points received for the engineering journal and vehicle documentation
10.8.2. Points of the best Obstacle Challenge round
10.8.3. Time for the best Obstacle Challenge round
10.8.4. Points of the second-best Obstacle Challenge round
10.8.5. Time for the second-best Obstacle Challenge round
10.8.6. Points for the engineering journal and vehicle documentation
10.8.7. Points for the best Open Challenge round
10.8.8. Points of the second-best Open Challenge round
10.8.9. Time for the best Open Challenge round
10.8.10. Time for the second-best Open Challenge round

11. Vehicle material & regulations

11.1. The vehicle's dimensions must not exceed 300x200 mm and 300 mm in height.
11.2. The weight of the vehicle must not exceed 1.5 kilograms.
11.3. The vehicle must be a 4 wheeled vehicle with one driving axle and one steering actuator of any type. It must be either front-wheel drive (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Front- wheel_drive), rear-wheel drive (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rear-wheel_drive) or four- wheel drive (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Four-wheel_drive). Teams with vehicles that use the differential wheeled base (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Differential_wheeled_robot) will be disqualified.
Driving - making the vehicle move forward and backward.
Steering - turning the vehicle to the left or to the right.
11.4. The vehicle cannot use any kind of an omnidirectional wheel, ball caster or spherical wheel.
11.5. The use of an electronic differentials with one motor per side (like in a differential  wheeled robot) is not allowed.
11.6. A vehicle must be autonomous and finish the "missions" by itself. Any radio communication, remote control, and wired control systems are not allowed while the vehicle is running. Teams in violation of this rule will be disqualified.
11.7. Participants are not allowed to interfere with or assist the vehicle while it is running (performing the "mission"). This includes entering data to a program by giving visual, audio or any other signals to the vehicle during the round. Teams that violate this rule will be disqualified at that round.
11.8. The controller used for the vehicle can be either Single board computer (SBC) (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-board_computer) or Single board microcontroller (SBM) (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-board_microcontroller) with no restriction on brand.
11.9. There could be more than one SBC/SBM on the vehicle.
11.10. Teams cannot use any kind of RF, Bluetooth, Wi-Fi, or any kind of wireless communication components in their vehicles during the competition rounds. If it is built- in on the controller, it must be turned off and the judges can inspect the code and the vehicle to confirm that it is not used by any means.
11.11. Teams can use any sensors of their choice - there are no restrictions on brand, function or number of sensors used. Cameras are considered sensors. Smartphones can be  used as cameras and to process image data.
11.12. Teams can use any electrical DC motors and/or servo motors of their choice - there are no restrictions on brand of motors and/or servos used.
11.13. A maximum of two motors may be used to make the vehicle move forward or backward (i.e., driving the robot, these are the driving motors). The driving motors must all be connected directly to the axle turning the wheels, or indirectly through a gearing system. The two driving motors may not be connected independently of each other to the driving wheels.
11.14. Teams can use any electronic components - there are no restrictions on the type, company, number, or the purpose.
11.15. Teams can use any hydraulic pressure, barometric pressure equipment or solenoids.
11.16. Teams can use any battery of their choice - there are no restrictions on brand, function


or number of batteries used.
11.17. Only wire connections are permitted for communication between vehicle electromechanical components.
11.18. Teams can use 3D printed elements, elements prepared with a CNC machine, elements cut from acrylic/wood/metal or any elements from any material - there are no restrictions on the purpose.
11.19. The vehicle can be built using any type of hardware kits and any material. There is no restriction on a specific type or a specific building system.
11.20. Teams can use electrical tape, elastic bands, cable wraps, nylon ties (tie wraps), etc. Any adhesive material is allowed to be used for any purpose.
11.21. Teams should bring enough spare parts. In the case of any accidents or equipment malfunction, WRO (and/or organizing committee) is not responsible for their maintenance or replacement.
11.22. Vehicles may be assembled before the tournament.
11.23. Control software can be written in any programming language - there are no restrictions on a specific language.
11.24. Contestants may prepare the program beforehand.
11.25. Teams should prepare and bring all the equipment, software, and portable computers they need during the tournament.
11.26. The team is allowed to have only one vehicle for competition day. No spare vehicles are allowed inside the competition area.

12. Competition Format & Rules
The description in this document explains how the competition will be done at the International Final. National and regional competitions can use this model or customise this model for their own competitions.
12.1. The competition consists of several challenge rounds with practice time in between. After each practice time, there will be a vehicle check time to review the requirements.
12.2. Each team must work during practice time in their specified place until the check time, when the team's vehicle must be placed in a designated area (checking area).
12.3. On the day of the competition, there will be a minimum of 60 minutes of practice time before the start of the first round.
12.4. Teams cannot touch the designated competition areas before the start of the practice time is announced.
12.5. During practice time, the contestants may work in their places, or may queue with their vehicles to have one test attempt on the game field or may take measurements in the game field in so far as this does not interfere with other teams' test attempts. The maximum time allowed per team for one practice attempt is 4 minutes. After 4 minutes a team may fall in at the back of the que for another practice attempt. Teams are allowed to make changes to the program or to adjust the vehicle mechanically.
12.6. All vehicles must be placed on the reviewing table in the checking area for preparatory review (vehicle check) after the end of the practice period. All controllers of the vehicle must be powered off. No mechanisms or programs may be modified after this time.
12.7. Vehicles may take part in the competition only after they have passed the vehicle check.


The check is concerning the requirements to the vehicle and materials used, as described in the sections above.
12.8. If a vehicle does not pass the vehicle check by the judges, the judges may provide a team up to 3 minutes to address issues found. Only one three minutes period can be provided by judges for a team per each check time slot.
12.9. If eventually a vehicle does not pass the vehicle check by the judges, the vehicle may not be used in the competition.
12.10. The team cannot exceed 90 seconds for preparation as soon as they are called by judges for participating in a particular challenge round, and once started, individual rounds may not exceed the challenge round time specified in the Game Rules.

13. Game table and equipment

Game Table & Field

13.1. Size of the game mat is 3200 x 3200 mm (+/- 5 mm). The internal square within the game mat is the racetrack with inner size 3000 x 3000 mm (+/- 5 mm).
13.2. The main colour of the track is white.
13.3. The track is surrounded by (exterior) walls with inner height 100 mm.
13.4. The inner colour of the exterior walls is black. The outer colour of the walls is not defined.
13.5. There exist additional (interior) walls surrounding the internal section of the track with the height 100 mm.


Figure 10: Height of the exterior and interior walls
13.6. The outer colour of the interior walls is black. The inner colour of the walls is black. The colour of the top edge of the walls is black.
13.7. The thickness of both exterior and interior walls is not defined.
13.8. The distance between exterior and interior walls depends on the round type and is specified in the Game Alternatives section.
13.9. There are orange and blue lines on the track. The thickness of the lines is 20 mm. The colour of the orange lines is CMYK (0, 60, 100, 0). The colour of the blue lines is CMYK (100, 80, 0, 0).
13.10. There are dashed lines with thickness 1 mm on the field to bound the vehicle's starting zones. The colour of dashed lines is CMYK (0 0 0 30).
13.11. The size of every starting zone is 200 x 500 mm.
13.12. There are squares to identify places where traffic signs could be located. The line thickness of the traffic sing seat is 1 mm, and the colour of the line is CMYK (0 0 0 30).
13.13. The size of every traffic sign seat is 50x50 mm.
13.14. The area to evaluate if a traffic sign is moved is specified as a circle around the corresponding traffic sign's seat. The thickness of the circle line is 0.5 mm. The colour of the lines is CMYK (20 0 100 0).
13.15. The diameter of the circle is 85 mm.





Figure 11: The game field map with sizes


Walls configuration for the International Final

13.16. The inner walls will be placed in a square or rectangular shape according to the draw. The outer walls will be fixed in a square shape and will not change during challenges.
13.17. The colour of the walls will be black.
13.18. Although everything will be done by the organisers get the colours of the field mat and field objects as close as possible to the CMYK specification, differences might still appear. Teams will have the opportunity to calibrate and fine tune their vehicles to the colours on the board and field objects during testing rounds.



Traffic Signs

13.19. Every traffic sign is a rectangular parallelepiped with dimensions 50x50x100 mm.
13.20. Depending on the randomization process before every round there could be up to 7 red parallelepipeds and up to 7 green parallelepipeds.
13.21. The colour of the red traffic signs is RGB (238, 39, 55).
13.22. The colour of the green traffic signs is RGB (68, 214, 44).
13.23. The material of the traffic sign is not defined.
13.24. The weight of the traffic sign is not defined.






Parking lot limitations

(a)	(b)
Figure 12: Dimensions of the traffic signs


13.25. Every parking lot limitation is a rectangular parallelepiped with dimensions 200x20x100 mm.
13.26. One parking lot with two parking lot limitations is in each obstacle challenge round placed on the mat.
13.27. The colour of the parking lot limitation is magenta / RGB (255, 0, 255).
13.28. The material of the traffic sign is not defined.
13.29. The weight of the traffic sign is not defined.

Figure 13: Dimensions of the parking lot limitations

14. Glossary

Check Time
During the check time, the judge will look at the vehicle and check the measurements (e.g., with a cube or a folding rule) and other technical requirements. A check needs to be done before every round.
Coach
A person assisting a team in the process to learn different robotics aspects, teamwork, problem solving, time management, etc. The role of the coach is not to win the competition for the team, but to teach them and guide them through the problem identification and in discovering ways to solve the competition challenge.
Competition organizer
The competition organizer is the entity that hosts the competition a team is visiting. This can be a local school, the National Organizer of a country that runs the National Final or a WRO Host Country together with WRO Association running the International WRO Final.
Competition
There are two types of rounds in the competition: qualification and final. The best performing teams after the qualification rounds participating in the final rounds.
Game field
The area which the vehicle must navigate within. The area may contain objects the vehicle must interact to as per the competition requirements.
GitHub repo
A storage for the source codes of the programs managed with the version control system Git. The storage is provided by the GitHub service (https://github.com/)
Round
A team runs an autonomous vehicle to complete the task of the challenge. The challenge score is based on the amount of laps the vehicle drives on the game field.
Practice Time
During the practice time, the team can test the vehicle on the field and the team can change mechanical aspects or the coding of the vehicle. Calibration is allowed during practise time.
Team
In this document the word team includes the 2-3 participants (students) of a team, not the coach who should only support the team.
Vehicle's control program
A set (or sets) of instructions for the vehicle's microprocessor/microcontroller to read values from the sensors and analyse this information and prior state of the vehicle as so to provide commands for the vehicle's motors to solve the challenge.
Driving Motor
The motors connected to the axles which are connected to the wheels. These motors move the vehicle forward or backward.
Steering Motor
The motor that steers the vehicle to the left or to the right direction.
WRO
In this document, WRO stands for World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd., the non-profit organization running WRO world-wide and that prepares all the game and rule documents.
Driving direction
The direction in which the vehicle must move during the challenges. This is determined through the randomization.

Appendix A: Explanatory schemes

1. Meaning of moved or knocked down traffic sign
On the schemes below the traffic signs are considered as:
* (a) - not moved
* (b) - moved
* (c) - moved but does not cause the round stop
* (d) - knocked down but does not cause the round stop
* (e) - moved and causes the round stop
* (f) - knocked down and causes the round stop


(a)	(b)	(c)
Figure 14:
a) initial position of the traffic sign at the round start
b) the traffic sign is not on the seat but still within the circle
c) the traffic sign is partially outside of the circle and considered as moved

(d)	(e)



(f)
Figure 15:
d) knocked down traffic sign is partially outside of the circle
e) the traffic sign is moved completely outside of the circle
f) knocked down traffic sign is completely outside of the circle
2. Conditions to get points for finishing in the starting section
To identify if the vehicle finished within the starting section or not, the projection of the vehicle on the mat is used after full stop. If any part of the projection is outside of a straightforward section where the starting zone is located, the vehicle is considered outside of the starting section.
Consideration if the vehicle is within the starting zone or not is possible only if the vehicle stopped and has not moved for at least 30 seconds.
The starting zone on the schemes below is marked by the green colour.

Figure 16: The vehicle finished completely within the starting section

Figure 17: The vehicle finished outside of the starting section

3. Passing the starting section after three laps
The judges will end the round as soon as the vehicle passes the starting section after driving three laps.
When three laps are completed, the following phases are possible:

(a) the vehicle is driving to the starting section	(b) the vehicle is driving out of the starting
section

(c) the vehicle has passed the starting section

Figure18: Phases of passing the starting zone by the vehicle moving CCW
If the vehicle is still moving the judge will not stop time at the phases (a) and (b). But as soon as the vehicle is completely in the corner zone, the phase (c), the round will be ended.
The same is applicable if the round driving direction is clockwise.

(a) the vehicle is driving to the starting zone	(b) the vehicle is driving out of the starting zone



(c) the vehicle has passed the starting zone
Figure 19: Phases of passing the starting zone by the vehicle moving clockwise
4. Driving in the opposite direction
During the round the vehicle is allowed to drive in the direction opposite to the round driving direction for two sections only: the section where the direction was changed and the neighbour section.
Let's consider the several cases:
Case 1: the vehicle started driving in the opposite direction and stopped completely within the neighbouring section

Figure 20: Allowed driving in the opposite direction from the corner section
On the figure above the round driving direction is clockwise (presented by the green dotted arrow near to the wall):
- phase 1: the vehicle arrived in the corner section
- phase 2: it stopped


- phase 3: it started driving back
- phase 4: the vehicle stopped in the straightforward section without crossing the section boundary with the next section
- phase 5: it continued driving in the round driving direction.
Such manoeuvre is allowed.
Case 2: the vehicle started driving in the opposite direction and stopped on the line between two sections

Figure 21: Allowed to stop at the boundary between the next section and the section after it while driving in the opposite direction

On the figure above the round driving direction is clockwise (presented by the green dotted arrow near to the wall):
- phase 1: the vehicle arrived in the corner section
- phase 2: it stopped
- phase 3: it started driving back
- phase 4: the vehicle stopped at the boundary between the next section and the section
- phase 5: it continued driving in the round driving direction.
Such sequence of movements is also allowed


Case 3: the vehicle started driving in the opposite direction and moved completely outside the neighbouring section
If the vehicle passes the boundary between the neighbour section and the section after it, the round will be stopped.


Figure 22: Moving completely outside of the neighbour section while driving in the opposite direction is not allowed
On the figure above:
- phase 1: the vehicle is initially moving in the round driving direction which is clockwise (presented by the green dotted arrow near to the wall)
- phase 2: it stopped
- phase 3: it started driving in the opposite direction and crosses two sections as, so it is completely outside of the neighbouring section.


Case 4: the vehicle changed the direction on the border between two sections
If the vehicle changed the direction when its projection on the field crossed the line between two sections, the forward section is considered as the first one to determine the farthest section which is allowed to drive in the opposite direction.

Figure 23: The farthest section to drive in the opposite direction when the vehicle stopped partially in the section
On the left side of the figure above the final of the following scenario is considered:
- phase 1: the vehicle initially drove through track CCW (reflected by the green dotted arrow near to the wall)
- phase 2: it stopped on the line between two sections - the forward section in the round driving direction is considered as the section where the direction was changed
- phase 3: it continued driving in the opposite direction and passed completely the section which is the neighbour to the section where the direction was changed.
Such behaviour will lead to the immediate stop of the round. The scenario in which the round continues is considered:
- phase 1: the vehicle initially drove through track CCW (reflected by the green dotted
arrow near to the wall)
- phase 2: it stopped on the line between two sections - the forward section in the round driving direction is considered as the section where the direction was changed
- phase 3: it changed the direction and started moving in the opposite direction
- phase 4: the vehicle stopped at the border of two sections
- phase 5: it continued driving CCW
Since the vehicle's projection is still partially in the neighbouring section the round is not stopped.


Case 5: changing the direction several times
The vehicle is allowed to change the direction several times but the farthest section to drive in the opposite direction is considered based on the closest to the finish section where direction was changed the first time:

Figure 24: Allowance of changing the direction several times considered based on the closest to the finish section
The figure above allows to consider different outcomes for the case when the vehicle is changing the direction several times:
- phase 1: the vehicle initially drove through track CCW (reflected by the green dotted arrow near to the wall)
- phase 2: it stopped on the line between two sections - the forward section in the round driving direction is considered as the section where the direction was changed
- phase 3: it changed the direction and started moving in the opposite direction


- phase 4 and 5: the vehicle stopped in the neighbouring section - next to the section where the direction was initially changed then continued moving in the correct direction
- phase 6 and 7: the vehicle changed direction one more time, but this is not considered since the previous section where the direction was changed to opposite is closer to the finish
- if the vehicle completely goes out of the neighbouring section driving opposite the math will be stopped (the left side of the figure)
- if only part of the vehicle's projection is in the section next to the neighbouring section, this will not be considered as a reason to stop the round (the right side of the figure)
Case 6: Driving back-to-front
Hint: Old case 6 "passing traffic sign in the opposite direction" has been removed.
Driving back-to-front is allowed if the vehicle is being moved in the round driving direction.

Figure 25: Back to front driving in the round driving direction
In this direction the rules to pass the traffic signs are applied to the vehicle in the same manner - the red pillar must be passed from the right; the green pillar must be passed from the left.

(a)	(b)
Figure 26: The rules to pass the traffic signs while driving back-to-front

5. Passing traffic signs from the incorrect side
Although it is not allowed to pass traffic signs from the incorrect side, a threshold exists that can be used by the vehicle to recognize the fault state and fix the behaviour.
If the vehicle started passing the traffic sign improperly the time will not be stopped if the vehicle does not pass completely the line that goes from the interior wall to the exterior wall (later, - radius) and where the traffic sign is located.

Figure 27: The vehicle does not pass the radius while driving from the right of the green pillar

Figure 28: The vehicle does not pass the radius while driving from the right of the red pillar


As soon as the radius is completely crossed by vehicle judges will stop the round.

Figure 29: The vehicle completely crosses the radius from the right side of the green pillar

Figure 30: The vehicle completely crosses the radius from the left side of the red pillar
The same is applicable for the case when the vehicle is moving back-to-front in the round driving direction.

Figure 31: The vehicle passes the radius while driving back-to-front


In the obstacle challenge traffic signs only have to be obeyed on the three official laps. On the subsequent route to the parking lot, they can be bypassed to the right or left as desired. Moving them is still not permitted.
6. Parking in the parking lot
A robot is considered fully parked, when the projection of the robot on the mat is fully inside the rectangle between the two markers of the parking lot (marked in grey in the pictures) and the  robot is parked in parallel to the wall of the game field. The robot is considered to be parallel if  the distances between the two wheels on one side and the wall do not differ by more than 2  cm.



	

Grey area is the allowed area for parking.

The robot is fully in and parallel to the outer wall.




Figure 32: Fully parked situations



The robot is considered partly parked, when the projection of the robot on the mat is only partly inside the parking lot.



Counts as partly.

Figure 33: Partly parked situations

The parking lot limitations cannot be touched by the robot. When they are touched, the robot is stopped and no points for the parking can be scored.

Appendix B: Game field for national/regional finals

The main difference in the game field preparation for national/regional finals from the international final is how to build the interior wall, since the wall configuration depends on the randomization that happens before every qualification round.
Below is the recommendation that can be used to prepare segments of the interior wall.
First, this recommendation assumes that the material of the interior wall is wood/particleboard/MDF. Then, the wall consists of four parts: two long segments and two short segments and the thickness of every segment is the same. These segments are fixed together by using confirmat screws or dome screws and insert nuts. The height of the segments is 100
mm. The colour of the segments is black.



















Figure 34: Scheme of segments used for the interior wall
So, all possible configurations of the inner wall could be achieved if the following sets of segments are prepared:

Long segments
Short segments
2 segments per 1000 mm
2 segments per (1000 - 2??) mm
2 segments per 1400 mm
2 segments per (1400 - 2??) mm
2 segments per 1800 mm
2 segments per (1800 - 2??) mm

where "w" is the thickness of a segment

For example, if the segment thickness is 17 mm, the lengths of short segments will be 966 mm, 1366 mm, and 1766 mm.
After the randomization prior to a round, the corresponding combination of segments is fixed together by screws and located on the field. To make the construction harder to move by the vehicle, some weight could be located on the inner side of the wall's corners.

Appendix C: Engineering journal evaluation

The following guideline will be used to evaluate the engineering journal and vehicle documentation. Below is the list of scoring items and criteria for every item:

Scoring Area
Maximum Score
1.	Mobility Management
4
2.	Power and Sense Management
4
3.	Obstacle Management
4
4.	Pictures - Team and vehicle
4
5.	Performance videos
4
6.	GitHub utilization
4
7.	Engineering Factor
4
8.	Overall Judge impression
2
Total Score
30

The process to perform the vehicle documentation evaluation could be the following:
1. There are at least three judges which who will evaluate the documentation.
2. Every judge gets familiar with the vehicle documentation and provides his evaluation for every scoring item as per described criteria. The judge is not allowed to skip any scoring item. No discussion between judges is allowed at this moment. The evaluation of the item is based on the judge's understanding of the criteria and his feeling about how the corresponding criteria is reflected in the documentation - this is not a comparison of documentation materials provided by several teams between each other.
3. Average value for every scoring item is calculated based on the judges' marks.
4. The sum of all averaged scoring items is the total for the vehicle documentation for any particular team.

Rubric scale explanation

No evidence or discussion provided
Nothing provided
Inadequate
Too little information or information provided is not understood.
Needs improvement
Sufficient information is provided but it is clear that the effort cannot be duplicated.
Meets expectations
An exact duplication by another team can be made effortless from the information provided
Exceeds expectations
Not only can an exact duplication be made from the information provided, but information
on improvements is also provided.


Rubric for judging engineering documentation

1
Mobility Management


Mobility management discussion should cover how the vehicle movements are managed. What motors are selected, how they are selected and implemented. A brief discussion regarding the vehicle chassis design /selection can be provided as well as the mounting of all components to the vehicle chassis/structure. The discussion may include engineering principles such as
speed, torque, power etc. usage. Building or assembly instructions can be provided together with 3D CAD files to 3D print parts.


No evidence or discussion provided
0

Inadequate
1

Needs improvement.
2

Meets expectations.
3

Exceeds expectations
4


2
Power and Sense Management


Power and Sense management discussion should cover the power source for the vehicle as well as the sensors required to provide the vehicle with information to negotiate the different challenges. The discussion can include the reasons for selecting various sensors and how they are being used on the vehicle together with power consumption. The discussion could include a wiring
diagram with BOM for the vehicle that includes all aspects of professional wiring diagrams.


No evidence provided or discussion provided
0

Inadequate
1

Needs improvement.
2

Meets expectations.
3

Exceeds expectations
4

Support information for wiring diagrams:
1. https://www.edrawsoft.com/wiring-diagram.html
2. https://www.smartdraw.com/wiring-diagram/
3. https://www.doityourself.com/stry/3-different-types-of-electrical-wiring-diagrams-explained
4. https://www.allaboutcircuits.com/projects/build-your-own-robot-design-and-schematic/

3
Obstacle Management


Obstacle management discussion should include the strategy for the vehicle to negotiate the obstacle course for all the challenges. This could include flow diagrams, pseudo code and source code with detailed comments.


No source code or discussion provided
0

Inadequate
1

Needs improvement.
2

Meets expectations.
3

Exceeds expectations
4


4
Pictures - Team and vehicle


Pictures of the team and robot must be provided. The pictures of the robot must cover all sides of the robot, must be clear, in focus and show aspects of the mobility, power and sense, and obstacle management. Reference in the discussion sections 1, 2 and 3 can be made to these pictures. Team photo is necessary for judges to relate and identify the team during the local and international competitions.


No Team or vehicle pictures provided
0

Inadequate
1

Needs improvement.
2

Meets expectations.
3

Exceeds expectations
4

5
Performance videos


The performance videos must demonstrate the performance of the vehicle from start to finish for each challenge. The videos could include an overlay of commentary, titles or animations. The video could also include aspects of
section 1, 2 or 3.


No video evidence provided
0

Inadequate
1

Needs improvement.
2

Meets expectations.
3

Exceeds expectations
4

6
GitHub utilization


Git and GitHub are available for opensource project management and file version control. As part of the design and development process, teams must use this platform to document their progress, coding development and share files. Judging the platform will include how complete the information provided is, how information is structured and how often commits were done. Teams can use this platform to provide additional information on their engineering design and coding of their vehicle as well.


No evidence provided of GitHub use
0

Inadequate
1

Needs improvement.
2

Meets expectations.
3

Exceeds expectations
4

Support information for GitHub utilization:

1. https://careerfoundry.com/en/blog/web-development/what-do-developers-use-github-for-heres-why-its-vital/
2. What is GitHub?
3. https://apiumhub.com/tech-blog-barcelona/using-github/
4. https://kinsta.com/knowledgebase/what-is-github/
5. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GitHub
6. https://www.howtogeek.com/180167/htg-explains-what-is-github-and-what-do-geeks-use-it-for/
7. https://www.simplilearn.com/tutorials/git-tutorial


7
Engineering Factor


No evidence provided or no description of design.
0

Standard "Off the shelf" RC or modular construction kit with no design changes.
1

Standard "Off the shelf" RC or modular construction kit with little design changes.
2

Standard "Off the shelf" RC or modular construction kit with design changes and team added own designed components such as sensor mounts.
3

Own Design and manufacturing of vehicle and components, with off the shelf electrical components, such as motors and sensors
4

8
Overall Judges impression


Info on GitHub is weak and poor communication of vehicle design and coding. Efforts cannot be duplicated.
0

Info on GitHub is average communication of vehicle design and coding. Duplicating the efforts will not be easy.
1

Info on GitHub is excellent communication of vehicle design and coding. It will be easy to duplicate the efforts.
2

Appendix D: Minimal set of electromechanical components

The list below represents the list of equipment which can be used for electromechanical parts of the vehicle. This is suggestion rather than the requirements. Teams are on their own to follow these suggestions or not.
* a single board computer: it will be used for real time video processing, analysing sensor data, sending/managing signals to the motor controller.
* a single board microcontroller + a motor shield: this combination of equipment receives managing signals from the main SBC and operates with motors correspondingly.
* a wide-angle camera
* two distance sensors
* two light sensors
* servomotor: it controls steering
* DC-motor with gearbox: it controls the vehicle's velocity
* at least one encoder: it allows the vehicle to measure angular velocity of a DC motor
* IMU (inertial measurement unit) - this is usually a combination of gyroscope and accelerometer: it can be used to improve the vehicle navigation
* two batteries: one is for SBC and SBM, another is for motors
* a voltage stabilizer: it is required to provide adequate power supply for the SBC/SBM
* two switches to connect batteries to the power consumers: SBC/SBM, motors
* push button: it could be used as a trigger to start the round
An example vehicle configuration could be:
* Chassis from a Remote Controlled (RC) Car
* The main controller -- Raspberry Pi 3 (https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/raspberry-pi- 3-model-b-plus/), and a MicroSD card to keep an operating system and programs.
* Camera module (https://www.raspberrypi.org/products/camera-module-v2/) with extra wide-angle lens
* The motor and sensor controller -- Arduino UNO (https://store.arduino.cc/arduino-uno- rev3) with a prototyping shield (https://store.arduino.cc/proto-shield-rev3-uno-size)
* DC Motor Controller (https://www.robotshop.com/en/cytron-13a-5-30v-single-dc-motor- controller.html)
* DC Motor to drive the vehicle (could be part of the chassis),
* Servo Motor for steering (could be part of the chassis)
* IMU sensor (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/13762)
* 2 Ultrasonic Distance Sensor (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/15569)
* 2 Analog Line sensors (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/9453)
* Rotary Encoder (https://www.sparkfun.com/products/10790)
* An external USB Battery with a hub to split the consumption between Raspberry Pi and Arduino
* Additional battery applicable to power the DC motor (could be part of the chassis)

VERSION: JANUARY 15TH 2025







FUTURE


WORK ON A PROJECT AND DESIGN AND BUILD A ROBOT



AGE GROUPS:
8-12 / 11-15 / 14-19

WRO(r) 2025









WRO INTERNATIONAL PREMIUM PARTNER




WRO INTERNATIONAL GOLD PARTNERS




Table of Contents
Updates on the general rules from 2024 to 2025	2
PART 1 - GENERAL RULES	3
1. General information	3
2. Team and Age Groups definitions	4
3. Responsibilities and team's own work	4
4. Game documents and rule hierarchy	5
5. Robotic solution & project booth	5
6. Additional materials	6
7. Presentation & Judging	8
8. Judging process at the International Final	10
9. Awards and recognition at International Final	11
10. Glossary	12
PART 2 - SCORING SHEETS	13
PART 3 - TEMPLATE PROJECT REPORT	17
Updates on the general rules from 2024 to 2025
The main changes in the general rules from 2024 > 2025 are listed here and marked yellow:

5.8.
Updated the rule about the use of liquids and introduced a maximum of 1 litre of clear water.
5.9.
Added a rule about the use of drones in a project.

In addition, please note that during the season there might be clarifications or additions to the rules by the official WRO Questions & Answers. The answers are seen as addition to the rules. You can find the Q&A here: https://wro-association.org/competition/questions-answers/


PART 1 - GENERAL RULES
1. General information

Introduction
In the WRO Future Innovators category teams develop a robot that helps solve real-world problems. There is a new theme every year, often connected to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. After research into the theme each team develops an innovative and functioning robotic solution. They present their project on the competition day.

Focus Areas
Every WRO category has a special focus on learning with robots. In the WRO Future Innovators category, students will focus on developing in the following areas:

- Research and development: identify a specific problem within the season theme, research and come up with a creative solution.
- Prototyping: turning your idea into a functional robot solution.
- Technical engineering skills: implementing a robotic solution while using different source of materials (controllers, motors, sensors, 3rd party equipment etc.).
- Software engineering skills: developing a code that supports the robotic solution (e.g., using sensors, interaction between multiple devices).
- Innovation: Think about potential users, the impact and how you could turn your prototype into reality.
- Presentation skills: Prepare a project booth and present the idea to judges & audience.
- Teamwork, communication, problem solving, creativity.

Age-appropriate judging
All teams in this category are judged on several criteria that fit in three scoring rubrics. The scoring rubrics have a slightly different weight / importance for the different age groups (e.g., for younger students there is more focus on the presentation, for older students there is more focus on innovation and technical aspects).
Learning is most important
WRO wants to inspire students around the world for STEM related subjects and we want the students to develop their skills through playful learning in our competitions. This is why the following aspects are key for all our competition programs:
* Teachers, parents or other adults can help, guide and inspire the team but are not allowed to build or code/program the robot or build the booth.
* Teams, coaches and judges accept our WRO Guiding Principles and WRO Ethics Code to ensure a fair and rewarding competition for all.
* On a competition day, Teams and Coaches respect the judges' final decision and work with other teams and judges on ensuring a fair competition.
More information on the WRO Ethics Code here: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code.

2. Team and Age Groups definitions

2.1. A team consists of 2 or 3 students.
2.2. A team is guided by a coach.
2.3. 1 team member and 1 coach are not considered a team and cannot participate.
2.4. A team may only participate in one of the WRO categories in a season.
2.5. A student may only participate in one team.
2.6. The minimum age of a coach at an international event is 18 years old.
2.7. Coaches may work with more than one team.
2.8. The age groups in Future Innovators competitions are:
2.8.1. Elementary: students 8-12 years old (in season 2025: born years 2013-2017)
2.8.2. Junior: students 11-15 years old (in season 2025: born years 2010-2014)
2.8.3. Senior: students 14-19 years old (in season 2025: born years 2006-2011)
2.9. The maximum age indicated represents the age that the participant turns in the calendar year of the competition, not his/her age on the competition day.

3. Responsibilities and team's own work

3.1. A team should behave fairly and be respectful towards other teams, coaches, judges and competition organizers. By competing in WRO, teams and coaches accept the WRO Guiding Principles that can be found at: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code.
3.2. Every team and coach needs to sign the WRO Ethics Code. The organizer of the competition will define how the Ethics Code is collected and signed.
3.3. The construction and coding of the robot may be done only by the team. The task of the coach is to accompany them, help them with organizational and logistical matters and support the team in the case of questions or problems. The coach cannot be involved in the construction and programming of the robot. This applies to both the day of the competition and the preparation.
3.4. The booth decoration and presentation of the project in it should be designed and built by the team, not by the coach or others. A coach or others may only help or guide in any technical issues that teams have while preparing the booth (especially for younger kids). We expect a more professional style of decoration and information from older students than from younger students. Judges will consider whether the booth and presentation is delivered at a level appropriate to the age of the team when scoring.
3.5. If any of the rules mentioned in this document are broken or violated, the judges can decide on one or more of the following consequences. Before a decision is reached, a team or individual team members may be interviewed to find out more about the possible violation of the rules. The interview can include questions about the robot or the program.
3.5.1. A team may get up to a 50% reduced score for one or more judging rounds.
3.5.2. A team may not qualify for the national / international final.
3.5.3. A team may be disqualified completely from the competition immediately.

4. Game documents and rule hierarchy

4.1. Every year, WRO publishes a new version of the general rules for this category including the season challenge and the scoring sheets for the different age groups. These rules are the basis for all international WRO events.
4.2. During a season, WRO may publish additional Question & Answers (Q&As) that can clarify, extend or re-define rules in game and general rule documents. Teams should read these Q&As before the competition.
4.3. The general rule documents, the scoring sheets and Q&As may be different in a national competition in a country due to local adaptations by the National Organizer. Teams need to inform themselves about the rules that apply in their country. For any international WRO event, only the information WRO has published is relevant. Teams that qualify for any international WRO event should inform themselves about possible differences to their local rules.
4.4. At the competition day, the following rule hierarchy applies:
4.4.1. General rule document provides the basis for rules in this category.
4.4.2. Questions & Answers (Q&As) can override rules in the general rule document.
4.4.3. The judges on the competition day have the final word in any decision.


5. Robotic solution & project booth

5.1. Teams in this category build a robotic solution inspired by the theme of the season (see PART 3). A robotic solution has the following characteristics:
5.1.1. The solution is a robotic device that has several mechanisms, sensors and actuators and is operated with one or more controller(s). A robotic device should do more than a machine that is only repeating a certain workflow and should make autonomous decisions.
5.1.2. Avoid using manufactured, on the market robots or mechanisms to ensure you get more points for self-built designs in the Robotics Solution section of the scoresheet. If it makes sense to use an on the market mechanism or robot in your solution, explain your choice.
5.1.3. The solution can use one or multiple robot devices. Every robot should work autonomously and not be operated by a remote control. Any remote controlled or additional devices are only allowed if this is connected to the solution for the real world (e.g. interacting with humans). If multiple robots are used, they should ideally communicate with each other (digitally or mechanically).
5.1.4. The solution should be innovative and should help humans in their daily life. They can replace certain parts of human tasks or make it possible to do things we could not do before. Teams should always think about the effect it will have on people and society if robots help or replace humans.
5.1.5. The robot solution presented can be a model of what the solution would look like in real life. However, this model should demonstrate as closely as possible the performance and functions and scale to the actual robot if it would be produced, especially in the older age groups.


5.2. There is no restriction on the use of controllers, motors, sensors, or any other building equipment the team needs to create their robotic solution and project booth; however, it should not be the intention to use as much materials as possible. The judges will base their scoring on the project idea connected with a meaningful use of materials for every robotic solution.
5.3. Teams can use any software / programming language to code the robotic solution. All software / code that is used for the solution must be coded by the team itself or must be readily available to everyone (e.g. free open source tools).
5.4. Teams present their project and their robotic solution in a project booth (or other defined area) that is the same size for all teams at the tournament.
5.4.1. The international booth size is 2m x 2m x 2m (even if the provided walls are larger.) Each team will be provided with 3 vertical display surfaces within the booth, as close to the booth size as possible. The robotic solution and all booth decorations etc. should fit inside the booth, otherwise the team cannot be judged.
5.5. To explain their thinking to visitors, the team should use their booth to present information about their project in addition to showcasing their robotic solution. (Information about the team, the research, the development of the solution, etc.) There is no pre-described format for presenting the information, the team can use posters, displays or other materials.
5.6. A team must be able to demonstrate all aspects of the robotic solution within the booth. The team may be outside (in front) of the booth to present their solution.
5.7. Teams will be provided with the option of using a table.
5.7.1. At the international final the size of a table will be 120cm x 60cm (or as close as possible). The table size will be consistent across teams. If a team uses the table, the table must be placed inside the project booth. At the international final teams are allowed up to 3 chairs in the booth area.
5.8. The use of fire or mist is prohibited for safety reasons (e.g. to prevent legionnaires'  disease). The use of liquids is restricted to maximum 1 litre of clear water only. If fire,  mist or liquids are important for your solution, think about other ways to showcase it in  your video and in your project booth (e.g. with a video).
5.9. It is allowed to use drones as part of the project, but the drones cannot fly / operate at  the event. Make sure to show the purpose of the drone in other ways (e.g. with a video).
5.10. It is permitted to develop a project from a previous year; however, the team should describe how this project is clearly different or more evolved from the previous project in their report.

6. Additional materials

6.1. The overall judging in this category is based on the robotic solution itself, the presentation on the competition day (information given by the team and presented in the booth) and the following additional materials:
6.1.1. Project report (see 6.5).
6.1.2. Project video (see 6.6).
6.2. The project report is mandatory for all teams in all competitions. The project video is only mandatory for teams participating in the International Final.


6.3. Additional materials must be submitted before the competition day, giving the judges enough time to prepare. The competition organizer will announce the submission deadline.
6.3.1. For the International WRO Final, all materials must be submitted electronically.
6.4. On the competition day the team should bring a minimum of 2 printed project reports, one to hand over to the judges and one viewing copy for interested visitors.
6.5. The project report has the following requirements:

Goal
Help the judges understand the project and prepare questions for the judging session.
Maximum number of pages
20 pages single sided (10 pages double sided), including attachments, not including front-page, table of contents and list of sources. Longer reports will not be judged and will result in a score of zero points.
File type
PDF
Maximum file size
15 MB
Content structure
* Team introduction and roles (max. 1 page)
* Summary project idea (max. 1 page)
* Presentation of the robotic solution (max. 12 pages including photos of your robotic solution and/or screenshots from the coding):
o Evolution of project idea during the preparation
o Research into similar ideas that are available (if any)
o Construction of the solution
o Coding of the solution
o Challenges during the development process
* Social impact & innovation (max. 6 pages):
o Impact of your solution on (local/global) society (include possible negative effects)
o One tried, practical use case of your idea
o Junior & Senior age group only: Answer the other questions for this area that are asked in the scoring sheet for these age groups.
IMPORTANT NOTE: For the Elementary age group the chapter about the robotic solution should be max. 15 pages, the chapter on social impact & innovation max. 3 pages.
Language
For the WRO International Final, the report must be done in English.
Expectation
The project report should be made by the team only, not by the coach or others. A coach or others may only help or guide in any technical issues that teams have while preparing the report (especially for younger kids). We expect a more professional style of document, language and wording from older students than from younger students. Judges will consider whether the report is delivered at a level appropriate to the age of the team when scoring.
Template
A project report template is added to this document (Part 3)


6.6. The project video has the following requirements:

Goal
Present the team and the robotic solution to the general public. Demonstrate how the robotic solution works.
The video is also a guide for the judges, it gives you some extra time to present your robot solution.
Maximum length of the video
90 seconds (1.5 minutes).
File type
.avi, .mpeg, .wmv, .mp4
Maximum file size
100 MB
Goal
In the video the team shows their robotic solution while it is running. The team can do this in the real-world environment.
The team should not repeat everything they have written in the report. Teams should briefly introduce themselves and the project idea, but the main part of the video should show how the robotic solution works.
Language
For the WRO International Final, the video must be done in English. (English subtitles can be used to help with understanding, but these are optional.)
Expectation
The video should be done by the team, not by the coach or others. A coach or others may only help or guide with regard to any technical issues that teams have while preparing the video (especially for younger students). Judges will consider whether the video is delivered at a level appropriate to the age of the team when scoring.
Please note: Judges do not expect a professional video production. It is completely acceptable if teams just use a mobile device (e.g. smartphone, tablet) to capture the video in one go.


7. Presentation & Judging

7.1. Teams in this category need to go through the following process on the competition day:
7.1.1. Setting up their project booth and testing of the robotic solution
7.1.2. Inspection of the booth (e.g. check for booth size)
7.1.3. Presentation of the robotic solution in one or multiple judging sessions (see 7.2).
7.2. Each judging session takes 10 minutes. Judges will form groups of 2-3 judges and visit teams at their booth. First, the team has 5 minutes to present the project idea and demonstrate the robotic solution live at the project booth. Judges will keep time and stop the team after 5min. Then, judges will ask questions about the project and the robot solution.
7.3. In general, teams must maintain a presence within the team's booth during competition hours in order to present to members of the general public but, of course, the team should take a look at other projects and ideas as well.
7.4. A team should inform themselves of the schedule of the competition day and should be present at their booth in time for a judging session. The team must make sure that the booth is ready, and the robotic solution is on stand-by for a live presentation before the judges arrive.


7.5. If a robotic solution does not function during a judging session the judges will see if they can come back at a later time and/or the team can demonstrate the solution in the next judging session.
7.6. For the WRO International Final, the language for the presentation is English. If a translation is necessary, this should be done by someone without a direct connection to the team (e.g. a National Organizer). Use of translation applications is allowed to translate incidental words/phrases. For competitions in countries, National Organizers can decide on the language.
7.7. The judging at the WRO International Final will be executed in the different age groups with the appropriate scoring sheet for each age group. This will result in there being winning teams for each age group. At WRO Open Championships all teams can be judged together as one group if not enough teams are available to judge in the different age groups. National Organizers can decide the same for national competitions. The scoring forms are deliberately made in such a way that all teams can be scored together in one group, independent of the age groups.
7.8. Judges will prepare themselves for the competition by reviewing the report and video. In addition, at least one judging meeting will take place in the morning of, or the days before the competition. Here, the judges will discuss the judging process and will align on a joint understanding of the scoring sheets.
7.9. Judges should not judge teams from their own school / institution or country. If not enough judges are available, other judges from the judging group will ask the questions to the team during the judging session.
7.10. Judges will always view the performance of the team during the judging session and during the full event. Judges can deduct points on situations outside of a judging session as well, e.g. if the judges see that the coach is doing the work of a team.
7.11. It is suggested that every participant receives a participation, bronze, silver and gold certificate based on their performance based on the following table. One example can be seen in the following table. For the International Final, the table will be communicated to the teams before the event.

% of maximum points in age group
Certificate
< 25%
Participation
25-50%
Bronze
50-75%
Silver
> 75%
Gold

8. Judging process at the International Final
Note: This chapter may be replaced by a National Organizer with information about the format and ranking of teams at local events and at a National Final in a country.
8.1. The WRO International Final is a two-day event. On the day before, teams can setup the booths and judges use the opportunity to do a judge meeting and to have the same understanding of the process and scoring.
8.2. Judges are divided in groups of 2 or 3 persons. The groups are mixed looking at the level of judging experience, country of origin and professional background.
8.3. Judging Phase 1: Teams are judged several times by different judging groups. Not every judging group can see a presentation of every team, because there are multiple judging groups at the event. It is avoided that judges see teams from their own country.
8.4. Judging Phase 2:
8.4.1. All scores of all judging groups will be entered in the WRO Scoring System. Then the average scoring of all judges for a team will be used to determine the first ranking.
8.4.2. The first ranking will be discussed in a judge's deliberation round. The top teams (pending on the total amount of teams) from the ranking proceed to judging phase 3.
8.5. Judging Phase 3: The number of points received in round 1 is not the only factor in this phase. All teams in the top group are looked at with a fresh eye. Guided by the age group head judge all teams are discussed again in the judges meeting. Information from the judging groups is shared, the team documentation and video are considered again and if needed teams will be visited by a judge group again to get additional information.
8.5.1. Based on the points received in phase 2 and the thorough discussion described above, the final ranking of the top teams is determined by the judges. The process for this is as follows:
8.5.2. The judges decide on the final ranking of the top teams.
8.5.3. In order to reflect this final ranking in the scoring system certain teams may receive correction points so they end up in the right place in the final ranking.
8.6. The final ranking of the judging is published after the event in the WRO Scoring System.

9. Awards and recognition at International Final

9.1. At the WRO International Final a 1st, 2nd and 3rd place are awarded to the teams that overall score best in their age group. In addition, the WRO Scoring System displays an information about a Gold, Silver or Bronze badge of the team.
9.2. In addition, there will be several specific awards that will be presented to teams at the WRO International Final. These are awarded based on the assessment of the judges of an age group (or all judges of the competition), independent of the overall scoring of the teams. Specific sponsor awards can be added as well.
National Organizers can decide to use the same award in their countries or award different awards that are in line with the spirit of our WRO competition.

Additional Awards WRO International Final
Age group
Award name
Description
Elementary
Team Spirit Award
This trophy goes to a team that has demonstrated the best team spirit during the presentation and/or competition day(s).
Junior
Technical Solution Award
This trophy goes to a team that presents a truly robotic solution that is both simple and innovative and that is only as complex as is necessary.
Senior
Start-Up Idea Award
This trophy goes to a team that has clearly positioned their project as a prototype for further development. The project idea is innovative and new and will have a positive impact on society.
All age groups
Team Award
This trophy goes to the team that got the best score from voting that teams have done among each other. The competition organizer will organize this award with the teams and can decide if this is an award for every age group, only one age group or all age groups.

9.3. Every team/participant at the international final will receive a bronze, silver or gold certificate based on the points they have received. The exact procedure for awarding these certificates will be shared with teams before the International Final.

10. Glossary

Coach
A person assisting a team in the process to learn different robotics aspects, teamwork, problem solving, time management, etc. The role of the coach is not to win the competition for the team, but to teach them and guide them through the problem identification and in discovering ways to solve the competition challenge.
Competition organizer
The competition organizer is the entity that hosts the competition a team is visiting. This can be a local school, the National Organizer of a country that runs the National Final or a WRO Host Country together with WRO Association running the International WRO Final.
Judging Group
In general, 2 or 3 people form a judging group. These group will visit the teams in a judging session and ask questions. The same people will have seen the project report and video before the judging session as well.
Judging Session
Teams are judged in judging sessions. Every session has 10 minutes, 5 minutes for a presentation from the team, 5 to answer questions from the judges.
Project Booth
The project booth is the place where teams present their solution. The project booth's dimensions are 2m x 2m x 2m.
Robotic Solution
The robotic solution is the core result of the team's work. A team presents their solution to judges. A robotic solution cannot be larger than the project booth.
WRO
In this document, WRO stands for World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd., the non-profit organization running WRO world- wide. WRO is responsible for the (international) game and rule documents.

PART 2 - SCORING SHEETS

Presented below are the scoring sheets as used in the international final.
The Judges are asked to grade all criteria on a scale from 0 to 10, similar to grading in some educational systems. Based on that grade the number of points the team gets for that specific aspect of the competition is calculated. The maximum points are presented on the scoring sheet.
At the international final judges work in pairs or little groups. Teams are visited by at least 2 judge groups. The judges score each criterion and discuss their scoring after each round. The winners are selected on the base of the scoring of the judges and a discussion in a judge meeting after all judging rounds are completed.








Project Team Judge


Criteria

Score 0-10*
 
max points




 PROJECT & INNOVATION
Idea, Quality & Creativity

30

Research & Report

15

Usage of the idea

15

Key Innovation & Slogan

10
TOTAL	70

 ROBOTIC SOLUTION
Robotic Solution

30

Meaningful use of engineering concepts

10

Code Efficiency & Software Automation

10

Demonstration of Robotic Solution

15
TOTAL	65


PRESENTATION & TEAM SPIRIT
Presentation & Project booth

30

Technical Understanding & Quick Thinking

15

Team Spirit

20
TOTAL	65


Comments:











* Judges give a score from 0-10. For example, if a judge scores "Idea, Quality & Creativity" with a 5, then the team will get 5/10 * 30 = 15 points for this criterion.


(c) WRO Association, 2022








Project Team Judge



Criteria

Score 0-10*
 
max points





 PROJECT & INNOVATION
Idea, Quality & Creativity

30

Research & Report

15

Social Impact & Need

10

Key Innovation & Slogan

10

Extra element of entrepreneurship
a) Cost structure, b) Revenue Stream, c) Key Resources, d) Partners

10
TOTAL	75

 ROBOTIC SOLUTION
Robotic Solution

30

Meaningful use of engineering concepts

15

Code Efficiency & Software Automation

10

Demonstration of Robotic Solution

15
TOTAL	70


PRESENTATION & TEAM SPIRIT
Presentation & Project booth

25

Technical Understanding & Quick Thinking

15

Team Spirit

15
TOTAL	55


Comments:








* Judges give a score from 0-10. For example, if a judge scores "Idea, Quality & Creativity" with a 5, then the team will get 5/10 * 30 = 15 points for this criterion.


(c) WRO Association, 2022








Project Team Judge



Criteria

Score 0-10*
 
max points






 PROJECT & INNOVATION
Idea, Quality & Creativity

20

Research & Report

15

Social Impact & Need

10

Key Innovation & Slogan

10

Extra element of entrepreneurship
a) Cost structure, b) Revenue Stream, c) Key Resources, d) Partners

10

Next Steps & Prototype Development

10
TOTAL	75

 ROBOTIC SOLUTION
Robotic Solution

30

Meaningful use of engineering concepts

15

Code Efficiency & Software Automation

10

Demonstration of Robotic Solution

15
TOTAL	70


PRESENTATION & TEAM SPIRIT
Presentation & Project booth

25

Technical Understanding & Quick Thinking

15

Team Spirit

15
TOTAL	55


Comments:






* Judges give a score from 0-10. For example, if a judge scores "Idea, Quality & Creativity" with a 5, then the team will get 5/10 * 20 = 10 points for this criterion.


(c) WRO Association, 2022

PART 3 - TEMPLATE PROJECT REPORT
* PDF, max 15 MB
* Max. 20 pages single sided (10 pages double sided), including attachments, not including front-page, table of contents and list of sources.
* Please note: longer reports cannot be taken into consideration for the judges scoring!


Elementary
Junior/Senior
Front page - for international final an official template will be shared


Table of Contents


Team presentation
max. 1 page
max. 1 page
Let us know a bit more about your team.
Who are in the team? Where are you from? How have you divided the tasks in the team? Add a picture of your team.
Summary project idea
max. 1 page
max. 1 page
Describe your project and solution in an "executive summary". If someone would only Share all the information your readers and important stakeholders need to know.
What is the problem your project is solving and why did you choose this problem? How is the robotic solution going to solve the problem you established?
What is the value of your robotic solution? What would happen if it would be used in real life? Why is your project important?
Presenting robotic solution
max. 15 pages
max. 12 pages
Describe your robotic solution and how you have developed it. General aspects:
How did you come up with this idea? What other ideas did you investigate?
Did you find similar ideas being available? What is different about your solution? Technical aspects:
Describe the mechanical construction of the solution Describe the coding of the solution
Did you face any challenges during the development process?
Social impact & Innovation
max. 3 pages
max. 6 pages
Describe the impact of your solution for society. Who will it help? How important is it?
Give a concrete example of how/where your idea could be used.(Think about who would use and ow many people would benefit from it.)
Junior & Senior age group only:
Describe more about the innovation and entrepreneurship aspects of your project (see scoring criteria).
You could use the concept of a business model canvas to explain aspects of your project as a start-up idea. It is not important that you fill all parts of this canvas, you could only fill the parts where you feel they are most relevant for your project. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_Model_Canvas


List of sources


Make a list of the documents and - reliable - websites you have used for your research and the people you have spoken with.


Example template front page report:



WRO Future Innovators Category - information for teams
WRO Future Innovators Category - information for teams	1
Introduction	1
Timeline	2
Age Groups	2
Three scoring rubrics	2
WRO Ethics Code	3
Judging process at an International Final	4
Judging criteria WRO Future Innovators	6
Project & Innovation	6
Robotic Solution	7
Presentation and Team Spirit	7
Scoring sheets	8
Template Project Report	11
Tips for your video	12
WRO Ethics Code for Teams	13
Introduction
In the WRO Future Innovators category your task is to develop a robot solution that helps solve real-world problems. You will present your project and your robotic solution to the public and to the judges on the competition day.
There is a new theme for the competition every year, often connected to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. After research into the theme your team develops an innovative and functioning robotic solution.
The Future Innovators category is completely open source. The robot solution may be controlled with any type and number of controllers (e.g., Arduino, Raspberry Pi, LEGO, etc.). To build and program your solution you can use any materials and programming languages you want.











World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 1 / 14

Timeline
Publication of the tasks
At the start of the season the theme and specific challenges for Future Innovators will be published. Internationally this is on January 15th.

Research and development
Based on the season challenges your team will select a problem that you want to solve. You will collect information and come with an idea for a robotic solution.
Building and programming the robot solution
You will then develop and build your robotic solution. In this process you will do a lot of testing and improving to come with the best solution.
Project Report and Video
You need to make a report about your project and your solution. For the international final you will also need to make a video. This will help the judges (and the public) understand your project better.

Developing materials for your exhibition
At the competition day your team will have a booth (or other dedicated area) to present your project and robotic model. In this booth you will present information about the project. You can use posters, drawings, displays, etc. You can get creative with the design, there are no limits to the use of materials.

Preparing for the competition day
At the competition day your team will need to give a five (5) minute presentation to the judges. Make sure you prepare for this and practice. A tip: Present your project in advance to a school class, your friends or parents and let them ask you questions.
Competition day
On the competition day you start with installing your robot solution and exhibition. You will have at least two presentations in front of the judges. During the event you will also explain and demonstrate your solution to the public.

Age Groups
The WRO Future Innovators category is divided into three age groups: Elementary (8-12), Junior (11-15) and Senior (14-19).

Younger children have a different way of working and of looking to the world than older students. They come with different ideas, and their skills are less developed than older students. This is completely fine. Elementary teams do not have to perform at the same level as Senior teams. The judges will always look at the performance of the team compared to teams of a similar age.

Three scoring rubrics
WRO has developed a scoring sheet with three scoring rubrics. But for each age group there is a slightly different scoring sheet. The scoring criteria have a slightly different weight / importance in each age group. In Elementary there is a little more focus on the presentation and teamwork. In Junior and Senior there is a little more focus on technical engineering and innovation.



World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 2 / 14

Below a brief description of the rubrics, there is a separate chapter describing all judging criteria.

Rubric "Project and Innovation"
In this rubric it is all about the overall project idea and implementing the idea in real life. Do you understand the overall objects of this robotic solution? How have you developed your project idea? Have you thought about people that would use the idea or potential customers? What is special about your idea? The report that you have submitted will be considered too.
For the Junior and Senior age group there are some extra criteria that will be graded. Junior and Senior teams are also required to present one additional business model aspect. Your team can choose which aspect you want to present.

Rubric "Robotic Solution"
This scoring rubric captures the mechanical and other technical aspects of the project and the software implementation. The judges will assess if you have developed a robotic solution that is in line with our general rules (look at chapter 5 for a definition) They will also judge if you are making proper use of coding. Efficiency is important here. Bigger robots or more code is not automatically better.

Rubric "Presentation and Team Spirit"
This scoring rubric is about the presentation of your project and about how you function as a team. The judges will look at the complete presentation of your project (report, video, live presentation, booth). Are all aspects of the project explained in a good way? They will also look at how you work together and if your team can work independently.

WRO Ethics Code
WRO has three important guiding principles and an ethics code that all participants and coaches need to follow.
The three WRO Guiding Principles are:
* Teams are encouraged to learn and master new skills while having fun together.
* Coaches, mentors, and parents are there to guide the teams, not to do the work for them.
* Participating and learning are more important than winning.
All teams and coaches are required to undersign the WRO Ethics Code. The international version of the code is attached to this document as an example.
The WRO judges all need to follow the guidelines for judges.













World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 3 / 14

Judging process at an International Final
In this part we describe the process for judging at an International Final. At other events the process could be slightly different.

Preparing:
* Make sure that you have uploaded your report and video in time.
* Each team + coach needs to support and undersign the WRO ethics code.
* Make sure you read all the last-minute information that the organizers have sent.

The competition day(s)
* Set up your booth
* Check the schedule for judging and make sure your robot is ready and that you are all at the booth to present your project.
* Explain your project to visitors of the event during the day.
   * Don't forget to have fun... The judging rounds
* The judges will visit your booth on the competition day.
* You have 5 minutes to present your idea and demonstrate your robotic solution. (The judges will time this.)
* The judges then have 5 minutes to ask you questions.
* They will also look at what you have presented in your booth.
At the international final there will always be at least two (2) people in each judging group, and you will be visited by at least two (2) of these judging groups.

Grading
After the visit the judges will grade your team on all the criteria on the scoring sheet.
You will be judged on your project idea, your robotic solution, and the overall presentation of your team. The grading is similar to what a teacher would do: how well does your team perform on this aspect? The judges look at different criteria when they grade your team. The scoring sheets and explanations are attached to this document.
The judges give you a score from 0-10 for each criterion within the scoring rubric.
 0 means:	very poor, very bad, very insufficient, not existing 10 means:	perfect, excellent, nothing to improve
Example: The judges give your Elementary team a grade of "6" for "Idea, Creativity & Innovation". The maximum for this criterion is 30 points. The scoring system will automatically calculate the points. (The team will get: 30 * (6/10) = 18 points (60% of 30).

The final ranking
After all teams have been visited there will be a judge meeting. The Age Group Head Judge will present the teams with the highest scores. All judges have the possibility to propose another team is also part of the deliberations. The judges will then discuss the ranking. If needed they will decide to visit one or more teams again. After that the final ranking is determined.







World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 4 / 14

Can teams be judged by judges from their own country?
As WRO Association it is our responsibility to make sure that the competition is perceived as fair to all teams. To avoid any doubt, we try to allocate judges in such a way that they do not have to judge a team from their own country. But this is not always possible.
The judges have guidelines on how to act when they are visiting teams from their own country. From all teams and coaches, we expect that they do not put pressure on judges that come from their own country. Just like in an international sports competition the judges are there to do their work unbiased. They are there for the international competition, not to advocate for teams from their own country.
























































World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 5 / 14

Judging criteria WRO Future Innovators
Project & Innovation
Idea, Quality & Creativity
Your project should connect to the season theme and to the challenge as described in the season rules. (Described in part 3 of the General Rules & Season Theme document.) Your robotic solution should help solve one or more of the problems that are connected to the season theme. Creative thinking is important in your project, so try to find a new approach and think of new ways to solve the problem. The design of your solution should also be innovative and imaginative. Can you think of new uses for materials and resources? Think outside the box!

Research & Report
Before you can build your robotic solution, you need to do research. Which problem do you want to solve and how? You will also do research to find out the best way to build your robotic solution. What materials will you be using? What is the best way to program your robot solution? Talk to other people to find out what they think of your idea. You will produce a report that is a documentation of the development of your project and the research you have done. (Check article 6.5 of the General Rules & Season Theme document.)

Usage of the idea (Elementary teams)
You should think about who would use your robotic solution. Who would be helped with your idea? Talk to at least two (2) other people about your idea. (Not your coach or parents) What do they think about it? Do they have some good tips for you?
Social Impact & Need (Junior & Senior teams)
You should think about who would use your robotic solution. Who would be helped with your idea? What is the (social) impact of your idea? Is it important for individuals or for your community or country? Would it benefit people from other countries too? Discuss your idea with at least three (3) other people to get further input. (Not your coach or parents)

Key Innovation & Slogan
You should be able to explain what is unique about your idea. Are there potential competitors? What makes your idea better? You should also present a slogan about your idea - something that will help the public remember your robotic solution.

(Junior & Senior teams only) Extra element of entrepreneurship
You need choose one of the following aspects to explain your idea further.
a) Cost structure: Explain which costs are associated with producing and developing a real prototype of your idea.
b) Revenue Stream: Explain how you could generate income through offering your idea to the market. It could be a social business model as well.
c) Key Resources: Explain what key resources are needed to work on your prototype (e.g. staff, materials, know-how etc.).
d) Partners: Explain what partners are needed to make your idea a reality (e.g. local partners, institutions, investors, etc.).

(Senior only) Next Steps & Prototype Development
You need to present the logical next steps that are needed to develop your idea into a real prototype/product. Think of what you would need to do in the next 6-18 months. You can choose to use the Lean Start-up approach and present how your idea can be rolled-out in this way. For more information visit: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lean_startup. (But you can also use a different approach.)

World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 6 / 14

Robotic Solution
Robotic Solution
Your robotic solution should have several mechanisms, sensors and actuators and is operated with one or more controller(s). It should be able to do more than a machine that is only repeating a certain workflow as it should make autonomous decisions. Your robotic solution can replace certain parts of human tasks or make it possible to do things we could not do before. (Check item 5.1 of the General Rules & Season Theme document for the definition of a robotic solution.)

Meaningful use of engineering concepts
You need to use (technical) materials and components in a sensible and efficient way. Your robotic solution should be well constructed. You should show proper use of engineering and mechanical concepts/principles, for example, in the way you build your robotic solution or use gears, pulleys or levers. You should be able to explain the choices you made.

Code Efficiency & Software Automation
Your robot solution should use inputs from sensors/controllers to run specific routines in a smart and appropriate way. The automation and logic should make sense for your project idea and should be structured and functional. You should be able to explain your code and explain why you have used certain routines and programming languages.

Demonstration of Robotic Solution
You need to demonstrate your robotic solution and it should be reliable. This means that the demonstration can be repeated multiple times. You should be able to explain how the solution works and what could be improved in the future. Your robotic solution is a prototype
- not everything will be perfect. If an error happens during the demonstration, you will have an opportunity to solve it or you need to be able to explain why the error happened.

Presentation and Team Spirit
Presentation & Project booth
You need to present your project to the judges in an interesting 5-minute presentation. This presentation should include the demonstration of your robot solution. Your project video is an addition to this presentation and judges will view the video before the judging. (Check article 6.5 of the General Rules & Season Theme document.) You should also decorate your booth in such a way that it is informative and attractive to the public. People that visit your booth should be able to get clear information about your project and robotic solution. You can use all kinds of materials to make your project booth look interesting. (Do remember that the goal is to present your robotic solution, not to have the best decorations...)

Technical Understanding & Quick Thinking
You need to be able to explain why and for who your project idea is relevant, how your robot solution works and how you have developed and coded it. You will explain this in your presentation, but you also need to be able to answer questions about your project. This way you demonstrate that you have a good understanding of your solution.

Team Spirit
As a team you show that you value each other's work and the different team roles you have defined for yourself during preparation for the tournament. You are enthusiastic about sharing your idea with others. You also show that you can work on your own, without help from adults, not only during your project, but also when installing your booth or solving technical problems.


World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 7 / 14

Scoring sheets




Project Team Judge



Criteria

Score 0-10*
 
max points




 PROJECT & INNOVATION
Idea, Quality & Creativity

30

Research & Report

15

Usage of the idea

15

Key Innovation & Slogan

10
TOTAL	70

 ROBOTIC SOLUTION
Robotic Solution

30

Meaningful use of engineering concepts

10

Code Efficiency & Software Automation

10

Demonstration of Robotic Solution

15
TOTAL	65


PRESENTATION & TEAM SPIRIT
Presentation & Project booth

30

Technical Understanding & Quick Thinking

15

Team Spirit

20
TOTAL	65


Comments:











* Judges give a score from 0-10. For example, if a judge scores "Idea, Quality & Creativity" with a 5, then the team will get 5/10 * 30 = 15 points for this criterion.


(c) WRO Association, 2022







World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 8 / 14




Project Team Judge



Criteria

Score 0-10*
 
max points





 PROJECT & INNOVATION
Idea, Quality & Creativity

30

Research & Report

15

Social Impact & Need

10

Key Innovation & Slogan

10

Extra element of entrepreneurship
a) Cost structure, b) Revenue Stream, c) Key Resources, d) Partners

10
TOTAL	75

 ROBOTIC SOLUTION
Robotic Solution

30

Meaningful use of engineering concepts

15

Code Efficiency & Software Automation

10

Demonstration of Robotic Solution

15
TOTAL	70


PRESENTATION & TEAM SPIRIT
Presentation & Project booth

25

Technical Understanding & Quick Thinking

15

Team Spirit

15
TOTAL	55


Comments:









* Judges give a score from 0-10. For example, if a judge scores "Idea, Quality & Creativity" with a 5, then the team will get 5/10 * 30 = 15 points for this criterion.


(c) WRO Association, 2022








World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 9 / 14




Project Team Judge



Criteria

Score 0-10*
 
max points






 PROJECT & INNOVATION
Idea, Quality & Creativity

20

Research & Report

15

Social Impact & Need

10

Key Innovation & Slogan

10

Extra element of entrepreneurship
a) Cost structure, b) Revenue Stream, c) Key Resources, d) Partners

10

Next Steps & Prototype Development

10
TOTAL	75

 ROBOTIC SOLUTION
Robotic Solution

30

Meaningful use of engineering concepts

15

Code Efficiency & Software Automation

10

Demonstration of Robotic Solution

15
TOTAL	70


PRESENTATION & TEAM SPIRIT
Presentation & Project booth

25

Technical Understanding & Quick Thinking

15

Team Spirit

15
TOTAL	55


Comments:







* Judges give a score from 0-10. For example, if a judge scores "Idea, Quality & Creativity" with a 5, then the team will get 5/10 * 20 = 10 points for this criterion.


(c) WRO Association, 2022








World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 10 / 14

Template Project Report
* PDF, max 15 MB
* Max. 20 pages single sided (10 pages double sided), including attachments, not including front-page, table of contents and list of sources.
* Please note: longer reports cannot be taken into consideration for the judges scoring!


Elementary
Junior/Senior
Front page (Age group, Team name, country, Picture of project)


Table of Contents


Team presentation
max. 1 page
max. 1 page
Let us know a bit more about your team.
Who are in the team? Where are you from? How have you divided the tasks in the team? Add a picture of your team.
Summary project idea
max. 1 page
max. 1 page
Describe your project and solution in an "executive summary". If someone would only Share all the information your readers and important stakeholders need to know.
* What is the problem your project is solving and why did you choose this problem?
* How is the robotic solution going to solve the problem you established?
* What is the value of your robotic solution? What would happen if it would be used in real life?
* Why is your project important?
Presenting robotic solution
max. 15 pages
max. 12 pages
Describe your robotic solution and how you have developed it. General aspects:
* How did you come up with this idea? What other ideas did you investigate?
    * Did you find similar ideas being available? What is different about your solution? Technical aspects:
* Describe the mechanical construction of the solution
* Describe the coding of the solution
* Did you face any challenges during the development process?
Social impact & Innovation
max. 3 pages
max. 6 pages
Describe the impact of your solution for society.
* Who will it help? How important is it?
* Give a concrete example of how/where your idea could be used.(Think about who would use and ow many people would benefit from it.)
Junior & Senior age group only:
* Describe more about the innovation and entrepreneurship aspects of your project (see scoring criteria).
* You could use the concept of a business model canvas to explain aspects of your project as a start-up idea. It is not important that you fill all parts of this canvas, you could only fill the parts where you feel they are most relevant for your project. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_Model_Canvas


List of sources


Make a list of the documents and - reliable - websites you have used for your research and the people you have spoken with.



World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 11 / 14

Tips for your video
The main goal is to present your robotic solution to the public and to demonstrate how your robotic solution works. The video will also be watched by the judges. You can see it as some extra minutes to present all the cool things of your robotic solution!

Maximum length:	90 seconds (1.5 minutes) File type:	.avi .mpeg .wmv .mp4 Maximum file size:	100 MB

What you need to think of first:
* Shoot your video in landscape mode.
* Sound is even more important than image!
Start with a test video to see if people can hear you on the video. Try to use an external microphone if possible.
* For the WRO International Final, the video must be done in English.
* English subtitles can be used to help with understanding, but these are optional.
Make the video with your team.
* The video should be made by the team, not by the coach or others.
* A coach or others may only help or guide with regard to any technical issues that teams have while preparing the video (especially for younger students).
* We do not expect a professional video production.

What should be in the video? Briefly introduce your team
* Take a few seconds to introduce your team. Who are you? Where are you from?
Briefly introduce your project idea
* Explain the idea for your robotic solution in a few words. How does it connect to the season theme?
In the video you will need to show your robotic solution while it is running.
* You do not have to repeat everything you have written in your report, focus on showing how your robotic solution works when running.
The team can do show the robot in the real-world environment.
* If it is possible, you can put your robot in the real-world environment. So, if your robot is supposed to work in a forest, why not make a video in the forest?













World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 12 / 14

WRO Ethics Code for Teams





The WRO Ethics Code for Teams

"It is not whether you win or lose, but how much you learn that counts."


As a team we follow these principles:


We are participating in a competition. We like to win. We want to learn.
And we also want to have fun.
We want to play fair.
We design our own robot and we write our own software. It is not fair if someone else does that for us.
We can only learn if we try things ourselves. Our coach can teach us things and guide us. And we can also get inspired by others.
But our coach should not do the work for us.
And we do not simply copy a robot or software from someone else.
We use the examples we find to design our own robot and programming.
Sometimes we fail and that is OK. Original ideas come from failing.
Winning is nice but failing is part of our journey.





Team name: 	


Name & signature of Coach: 	


Name & signatures of Team members: 	













(c) World Robot Olympiad Association - 2022






World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 13 / 14





What is OK and what is not OK in World Robot Olympiad(tm)?

OK
Not OK
All competitions
All competitions
We search for information online and share ideas with other people.
We learn from the examples and use what we have learned in our own robot.
(hardware and/or software)
We buy a solution online or we use a direct copy of another person.
We use that solution in the competition. (hardware and/or software)
Our coach/mentor/parent advises us on different ways to program things.
Our coach/mentor/parent programs the software (or parts of the software) for us.
Our coach/mentor/parent shows us different ways of constructing things.
Our coach/mentor/parent builds the robot (or parts of the robot) for us.
Our coach/mentor/parent lets us find out what to do ourselves if things don't work.
Our coach/mentor/parent fixes it for us if things don't work.
Our coach/mentor/parent lets us handle things ourselves on the competition day.
Our coach/mentor/parent discusses with the judges about the rules and decisions on the competition day.
We want to win the competition, but not by cheating or having someone else do the work for us.
We want to win the competition, it does not matter how we win it.
We adapt our strategy ourselves and repair / adapt our robots ourselves.
Our coach/mentor/parent suggests or tells us how to change our strategy and repairs / adapts our robots for us.
RoboMission
RoboMission
We try to solve the surprise rule and 2nd Day Challenge ourselves, because we have learned all the basics and can find a solution as a team.
Our coach/mentor/parent tries to give us the instructions to solving the surprise rule and 2nd Day Challenge after it has been announced.
Future Innovators
Future Innovators
Our coach/mentor/parent only helps us with preparing our Robot model or Future Innovators booth if it is needed.
(For example, if things are too heavy, if we need to learn new skills, or if something is too dangerous for us to prepare on our own.)
Our coach/mentor/parent decides what our robot model and/or our booth will look like and builds things for us even if we could make it on our own.




(c) World Robot Olympiad Association - 2022







World Robot Olympiad and the WRO logo are trademarks of World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd. (c)2025 Page 14 / 14


Future Innovators
Season Challenge
Season 2025





The Future of Robots
AGE GROUPS ELEMENTARY, JUNIOR AND SENIOR


Official Game Rules for the WRO International Final. Version: January 15th 2025 (Note: Rules for local WRO events may vary!)


WRO International Premium Partner





WRO International Gold Partners


The Future of Robots

INTRODUCTION

The WRO Future Innovators category challenges your team to imagine and create the robotic solutions that will shape the world of tomorrow. This year's theme, "The Future of Robots," invites you to explore the way robotics can help solve global challenges and improve our lives.

Diving into The Future of Robots is a journey into the unknown, where innovation meets the challenges of tomorrow. From robots reshaping our future cities, to robots driving the expansion of life across the universe and to AI-enabled robots improving all aspects of our life. The possibilities are endless. Through The Future of Robots, we can shape a future that holds solutions, drives progress, and brings a better tomorrow for mankind.

This document outlines three broad areas within the main theme of "The Future of Robots." It provides examples of possible solutions. Your team is encouraged to explore innovative robotics solutions within any of these areas. But you can also propose entirely original ideas that align with the theme.

Your Robot's Mission:

In 2025 your Future Innovators team has the task to come up with a robotic solution which helps in designing future cities, with life in space, or that combines AI with robotics to improve our lives. Once you've found a problem to solve, you need to design a robot that can help. This means thinking about what your robotic solution will look like, what it will do, and how it will work.

Your team will need to present your innovative robotic solution in a compelling manner. You will need to demonstrate your robot's capabilities and explain its potential impact. This document gives you a description of each sub-theme and some ideas. To spark your creativity, we give a few examples for each sub-theme. But you can also come with a different idea for a robotic solution for the future or even combine sub-themes.

More info about requirements in the General Rules:

Don't forget to study the general rules for the specifics about this category. Make sure your robotic solution is:

 "A robotic device that has several mechanisms, sensors and actuators and is operated with one or more controller(s). A robotic device should do more than a machine that is only repeating a certain workflow and should make autonomous decisions." (5.1.1. General Rules.)



Area 1. Robots Organizing Future Cities

As cities grow faster, innovative robotic solutions are needed to manage complex environments of the future. In this sub-theme you will research, design, and develop robotic solutions capable of optimizing various aspects of city life.

* Robots in Urban Transportation

Cities are getting bigger and more crowded, and traffic is becoming a big problem. We need new ways to get around that are safe and don't harm the environment. We already have self-driving cars, buses, and even flying drones that deliver packages. Your robotic solutions can go one step further by improving existing systems. You can also create entirely new solutions by improving public transportation or guiding autonomous vehicle navigation, all aimed at reducing traffic and increasing transportation efficiency.

* Robots Helping to Save Resources

Robots can bring new ideas to help cities use their resources better. Imagine robots that check how much energy buildings use, find leaks in water pipes, or make sure buildings stay safe. Your robot solution could help cities save energy and protect the environment. By automating tasks, looking at data, and giving quick updates, robots can help cities manage resources more wisely and create a cleaner, healthier future.



Area 2. Robots Supporting Life in Space

Humans aim to explore space, and robots will be important for helping us live and work beyond Earth. If you choose this sub-theme, you can explore how robots can do different jobs in the challenging environment of space.

* Robots building Habitats & Finding Resources

Robots could help build and maintain structures on the moon or other planets. Or help to maintain space objects. Your robotic system could help create a safe and habitable environments for humans. Robots could also help with mining resources, making materials, and producing energy that can support life in space. This will mean that space explorers will not rely on supplies from Earth so much.

* Robots Supporting Interstellar Travel

Robots will play a crucial role in handling navigation, spacecraft maintenance, and life support in long journeys through space. They can repair systems, monitor crew health, and harvest energy from space. Your robotic system can help humans to focus on exploration or take time to enjoy some entertainment.



Area 3. AI Enabling Robots to Improve Life

Combining Artificial Intelligence (AI) and robotics gives us amazing chances to improve human life in many ways. If you choose this sub-theme you should keep in mind that your project should focus on building a robotic system that can physically interact with the world around it, it's not just about creating software.

* AI Enabled Robots in Manufacturing & Industry

AI-driven robots could adapt to workers in real-time, adjusting tasks based on their workflow, skill level, or even mood. They could also help analysing data to suggest innovative solutions or improvements. Mood-responsive cobots might step in during stressful moments, offering support or handling challenging tasks. By focusing on improving life for workers, your AI-powered robotics system will make things safer, more interesting, and help things run faster and better.

* AI in Daily Living

AI-powered robots could seamlessly blend into everyday life, adapting to personal needs and preferences. Imagine AI learning buddies that turn homework into interactive games, making learning more engaging and fun. Virtual pets could evolve based on your personality. Your robotics system could focus on making daily life more enjoyable, personalized, and creative.





The Future Innovators category gives you the chance to be a part of shaping tomorrow. By working on real-world problems and coming up with creative robotic solutions, you will learn important skills and help make the world a better place.

Remember, WRO encourages you to also think about the UN Sustainable Development Goals your robotic solution could support. This way, your robot can have an even bigger impact, helping people and the planet. You can check out all the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the following link:

https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/


RoboMission
Elementary Game Rules
Season 2025






The Future of Robots
Satellites at Work

Official Game Rules for the WRO International Final. Version: January 15th 2025 (Note: Rules for local WRO events may vary!)


WRO International Premium Partner



WRO International Gold Partners

Table of Contents
1. Introduction	2
2. Game Field	2
3. Game Objects, Positioning, Randomization	3
3.1 Fuel the rocket	8
3.2 Launch the rocket	8
3.3 Collect the satellites and bring them into space	9
3.4 Collect space debris and bring it back	11
3.5 Bonus for astronauts & barrier	11
4. Scoring Sheet	13



Important information for reading this document:
* The general rules have changed drastically for 2025. Make sure to read them entirely.
* These game rules are made for local and national competitions.
* National Organizers in WRO countries are allowed to simplify the missions.
* For the International Final, one extra mission will be released on October 8th 2025. The extra challenge will work with the same game mat and brick set. It is not mandatory to do this extra mission to participate in the event.
* Because of possible surprise rules and the extra mission for the International Final, the game field may contain areas and markings that are not used at local or national events.
* For greater clarity, the robot missions are explained in multiple sections. But the teams can decide which missions they will do and which order.
* The game missions have easy and more complicated tasks. This makes the competition suitable for beginning and more experience teams. It is not necessary to solve all missions to enjoy a WRO participation.
* General information on game table setup and fixing of game objects on the field you find in the WRO RoboMission General Rules, chapter 7.
We wish everyone much success and a lot of fun with our WRO 2025 challenges! Your team of World Robot Olympiad Association

1. Introduction

Satellites are really important for things we use every day, like talking to people far away, predicting the weather, and using GPS. AI, or artificial intelligence, helps satellites work better by quickly analyzing lots of data and making accurate predictions. But there's a big problem: space debris. This is made up of old, broken pieces of satellites and rockets that can crash into working satellites and cause damage. To fix this, scientists are using robots with AI to find and clean up the space junk. AI also helps plan safe paths for new satellites to avoid collisions. This keeps space safe so our satellites can keep doing their important jobs.

Can your robot help bringing satellites into space and clean up some space debris?


2. Game Field
The following graphic shows the game field with the different areas.


If the table is larger than the game mat, place the mat against the wall with the two sides closer to the start area (in the picture: left and bottom side).

3. Game Objects, Positioning, Randomization

Rocket fuel
There is 1 rocket fuel on the field. The position on the game field is above the start area and always stays the same.


Rocket fuel


Position on the field

Rocket
There is 1 rocket on the field. The position on the game field is in the top right area and stays the same. The rail is fixed on playing field with double-sided adhesive tape.



Rocket


Start position of the rocket is always at the bottom.


Recommended positions of double-sided adhesive tape.

Satellites in 5 different colours
There are 5 satellites (in different colours) in total:
- 4 satellites are randomly placed on the positions 1 - 5.
- 1 random position stays free / unoccupied.
- 1 satellite is unused in every round.



5 satellites (in different colours)


Please note:
The following examples are just two of many options.

The antannes of the satellites always point in the direction of the wall. The pictures below show the orientation of all satellites.


One possible position for the satellites


Another possible position for the satellites

Space debris
There are 3 pieces of space debris on the field. They are always placed on the same positions on the game field. The orientation is shown in the last picture. The marking on the field shows the orientation.



3 space debris


Position top right


Position middle left


Position middle right


Orientation


Barrier and astronauts
There are 2 astronauts and 1 barrier on the field.
They are always placed on the same positions on the game field and are not allowed to be moved or damaged.



2 astronauts


Barrier


Position of astronaut on the left


Position of astronaut on the right


Position of barrier


Summary randomization
On this field, the following objects are randomly placed in each round:
* 4 of the 5 satellites (one satellite is left out each round!)

You can see one possible randomization here (only randomized objects are marked):



Robot Missions
3.1 Fuel the rocket
A piece of rocket fuel is stored on the field above the starting area. This rocket fuel needs to be transported to the launch pad below the rocket in the bottom right corner of the game field.
* Definition "completely in": Completely means that the game object is touching the corresponding area only.


Each
Max.
Fuel is completely in the rocket fuel area (white hexagon area) (no matter if standing or lying)
10
10
Fuel is touching the rocket fuel area
5



    10 points (completely inside)


 10 points (ok if lying)


10 points (fully in and
not touching outside)


  5 points (partly inside)


0 points (object is only
touching outside)


0 points (object is only
touching outside)

3.2 Launch the rocket
The rocket is placed on the launch pad on the right end of the game field. The rail symbolizes the flight path of the rocket. Launch the rocket into space. Please note for this task:
* To check, if the rocket reached a certain area of the flight path you have to look at the rocket rail from top-down view. The rocket has to fully cross the red marker on the rail in top-down view.



Each
Max.
Rocket reached the orbit
(Rocket is beyond 2nd red marker)
15
15
Rocket is in flight
(Rocket is beyond 1st red marker, but not beyond 2nd red marker)
5



     15 points (beyond 2nd marker)


     5 points (beyond 1st marker, but not 2nd marker)


0 points
(not beyond any marker)


0 points
(not on the rail anymore)


0 points
(not correctly on the rail)



The rocket has to stay correctly on the rail.


Top-down view: Rocket beyond marker


Top-down view: Rocket not
beyond marker



The relevant factor for scoring points is the top- down view.

3.3 Collect the satellites and bring them into space
4 different satellites are randomly placed on the positions 1 - 5 on the game and the robot should identify the satellites and bring them to the orbit of the same colour.
The following table shows the scoring of this task and the photos show scoring situations that apply for all satellites. Please note for this task:
* Definition "completely in": Completely means that the game object is touching the corresponding area only.
* Per orbit only the satellite scoring the most points will be counted.



Each
Max.
Satellite is completely in satellite orbit of the correct colour
20
80
Satellite is partly touching any satellite orbit or completely in an orbit of the wrong colour
5



    20 points (completely inside)


    20 points (completely inside)


  5 points (partly inside)


  5 points (partly inside)


5 points
(fully in, but wrong colour)


5 points
(partly in, but wrong colour)


0 points
(object is only touching outside, very sad)


20 points for red one (only the object
with higher points counts)


3.4 Collect space debris and bring it back
The atmosphere contains 3 pieces of space debris. Collect these pieces and bring them into the start area (white area without blue boarder).


Each
Max.
Space debris is touching the start area
10
30


    10 points (completely inside)


  10 points (partly inside)


0 points
(not touching the start area)


3.5 Bonus for astronauts & barrier
It is not allowed to move or damage the astronauts or the barrier.
If those objects are not damaged and not moved, you will always get bonus points.
The following table shows the scoring of this task and the photos show scoring. Please note for this task:
* Definition "damaged": Any situation that means that the game object is not exactly like at the start of the run, e.g. a brick fell off or balls have fallen off the barrier.
* Definition "moved": The game object is considered as moved if a part of the game object is touching the mat outside of the grey area.


Each
Max.
Astronaut is not damaged or moved
5
10
Barrier is not damaged or moved
10
10


        5 points (touching grey area only)


 0 points (damaged)


    0 points (touching outside)




       10 points (touching grey area only)


 0 points (damaged)


      0 points (counts as damaged)


    0 points (touching outside)


    0 points (touching outside)


4. Scoring Sheet

Team name: 		Round: 	

Tasks
Each
Max.
#
Total
Fuel the rocket
Fuel is completely inside the rocket fuel area (no matter if standing or lying)
10
10


Fuel is touching the rocket fuel area
5



Launch the rocket
Rocket reached the orbit
(Rocket is beyond 2nd red marker)
15
15


Rocket is in flight
(Rocket is beyond 1st red marker, but not beyond 2nd red marker)
5



Collect the satellites and bring them into space
(only one satellite per orbit, the one with more points, counts)
Satellite is completely in satellite orbit of the correct colour
20
80


Satellite is partly touching any satellite orbit or completely in an orbit of the wrong colour
5



Collect space debris and bring it back
Space debris is touching the start area
10
30


Bonus for astronauts & barrier
Astronaut is not damaged or moved
5
10


Barrier is not damaged or moved
10
10


Maximum Score

155


Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds


VERSION: JANUARY 15TH 2025






ROBO


BUILD AND PROGRAM A ROBOT THAT SOLVES TASKS ON A FIELD




AGE GROUPS:
8-12 / 11-15 / 14-19

WRO(r) 2025







WRO international premium partner





WRO international gold partners



Table of Contents
1. General information	3
2. Team and Age Groups definitions	4
3. Responsibilities and team's own work	4
4. Game documents and rule hierarchy	5
5. Robot material & regulations	5
6. Technical summary of the robot	9
7. Game table and equipment	9
8. Potential elements of a competition day	11
9. Tournament Format and Procedure	12
10. Robot attempt	13
11. Format and ranking at WRO International Final	15
A. Glossary	16
B. Template Technical Summary	17
C. List of potential robotic sets	18
D. Examples and explanations for competition elements	19
E. Additional ideas	31
Important: Updates on the general rules for 2025
For the year 2025 the rules were completely redesigned because we opened up RoboMission for all robots. Please read them carefully!
Please note that this document does not contain a prescribed set up for a competition day in a country. Our National Organizers need to assemble the competition based on the ideas provided in this document. Please refer to your local organizer to check how the competition works in your country.
In addition, please note that during the season there might be clarifications or additions to the rules by the official WRO Questions & Answers. The answers are seen as addition to the rules. You can find the Q&A here: https://wro-association.org/competition/questions-answers/

1. General information

Introduction
In the WRO RoboMission category teams design robots that solve challenges on a competition field. The robots are fully autonomous.
For each age group a new field and mission are developed each year. The competition consists of different element like surprise rules or extra challenges on the competition day.

Focus Areas
Every WRO category and game has a special focus on learning with robots. In the WRO RoboMission category, students will focus on developing in the following areas:
- General coding skills & basic robotics concepts (perception of environment, control, navigation).
- General engineering skills (building a robot that can push/lift objects of certain sizes).
- Developing optimal strategies to solve concrete missions.
- Computational Thinking (e.g., tinkering, debugging, collaboration etc.).
- Teamwork, communication, problem solving, creativity.
Age appropriate missions: The fields and missions are designed with a growing difficulty and complexity from Elementary to Senior age group. The rising complexity is seen in the:
- Route on the field (e.g., line following or only markers).
- Technical complexity of the missions (e.g., pushing, lifting, grabbing game objects).
- Randomness of the game elements (e.g., one or multiple random situations).
- Variety of game elements (e.g., number of different coloured and/or shaped objects).
- Required accuracy of the solutions to the missions (e.g., a big target area or a small spot).
- Overall complexity in the combination of the elements mentioned before.
All these aspects lead to different requirements for the mechanical design of the robot and the complexity of the code. When participating in WRO for multiple seasons, the teams can grow and develop with the program, solving increasingly complex missions as they get older.

Learning is most important
WRO wants to inspire students around the world for STEM related subjects and we want the students to develop their skills through playful learning in our competitions. This is why the following aspects are key for all our competition programs:
* Teachers, parents or other adults can help, guide and inspire the team, but are not allow to build or code/program the robot.
* Teams, coaches and judges accept our WRO Guiding Principles and WRO Ethics Code to ensure a fair and rewarding competition for all.
* On a competition day, Teams and Coaches respect the final decision judges take and work with other teams and judges on a fair competition.
More information on the WRO Ethics Code you find here: https://link.wro-association.org/Ethics- Code

2. Team and Age Groups definitions
2.1. A team consists of 2 or 3 students.
2.2. A team is guided by a coach.
2.3. 1 team member and 1 coach are not considered a team and cannot participate.
2.4. A team may only participate in one of the WRO categories in a season.
2.5. Any student may participate in one team only.
2.6. The minimum age of a coach at an international event is 18 years old.
2.7. Coaches may work with more than one team.
2.8. The age groups in RoboMission competitions are:
2.8.1. Elementary: students 8-12 years old (in season 2025: born years 2013 - 2017)
2.8.2. Junior: students 11-15 years old (in season 2025: born years 2010 - 2014)
2.8.3. Senior: students 14-19 years old (in season 2025: born years 2006 - 2011)
2.9. The maximum age reflects the age that the participant turns in the calendar year of the competition, not his/her age at the competition day. Always check the year of birth.


3. Responsibilities and team's own work
3.1. A team should play fair and be respectful towards teams, coaches, judges and competition organizers. By competing in WRO, teams and coaches accept the WRO Guiding Principles that can be found at: https://link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code.
3.2. Every team and coach need to undersign the WRO Ethics Code. The organizer of the competition will define how the Ethics Code is collected and signed.
3.3. The construction and coding of the robot may be done only by the team members. The task of the coach is to accompany the team organizationally and to support them in advance in case of questions or problems, but not to do the construction and programming of the robot themselves. This applies to both the day of the competition and the preparation.
3.4. A team is not allowed to communicate in any way with people outside of the competition area while the competition is running. If communication is necessary, a judge may allow team members to communicate with others under supervision of a judge.
3.5. Team members are not allowed to bring and use mobile phones, smart watches or any other communication device into the competition area.
3.6. It is not allowed to use a solution (hardware and / or software) that is (a.) the same or too similar to solutions sold or posted online or (b.) the same or too similar to another solution at the competition or (c.) clearly not the own work of the team. This includes solutions from teams of the same institution and/or country. Teams must develop their robots autonomously and independently of other teams. Robots that are very similar and give rise to the suspicion that they have been jointly developed but partially adapted to bypass this rule will be classified as identical robots. This rule will be applied to the entire competition. General purpose models of commercial robotic kits might be used.
3.7. If there is a suspicion in relation to rules 3.3 to 3.6, the team may be subjection for investigation and any consequences as mentioned in 3.8 can apply. Especially in these cases rule 3.8.5 may be used to not allow this team to progress to the next competition, even if the team would win the competition with the solution that is likely not their own. Investigations may occur at any point during or even after the competition.


3.8. If any of the rules mentioned in this document are broken or violated, the judges can decide on one or more of the following consequences. Before, a team or individual team members may be interviewed to find out more about the possible violation of the rules. This can include questions about the robot or the program. Team members must be able to explain the robot and software in its entirety including subprograms and reusable blocks.
3.8.1. A team may be given a time penalty of max. 15 minutes. In this time, teams are not allowed to do any changes on their robot and program.
3.8.2. A team may not be allowed to participate in one or more rounds. Then, see 10.11.
3.8.3. A team may get up to a 50% reduced score in one or more runs.
3.8.4. A team may not qualify for the next round of the tournament
(e.g. in case you have a tournament format with TOP 16, TOP 8 etc.).
3.8.5. A team may not qualify for the national / international final.
3.8.6. A team may be disqualified completely from the tournament immediately.

4. Game documents and rule hierarchy
4.1. Every year, WRO publishes new game documents for the specific age group field missions and a new version of the general rules for this category. These rules are the base for all international WRO events.
4.2. During a season, WRO may publish additional Question & Answers (Q&A) that can clarify, extend or re-define rules in game and general rule documents. Teams should read these Q&A before the competition. International Q&A are published here: https://wro-association.org/competition/questions-answers/
4.3. Game documents, the general rule document and Q&A may be different in a country due to local adaptations through the National Organizer. Teams need to inform themselves about the rules that apply in their country. To get clarification on local rules, only the local Q&A apply. Clarifications on the international level do not apply automatically in the national competitions. For any international WRO event, only the information WRO has published is relevant. Teams that qualified for any international WRO event should inform themselves about possible differences to their local rules.
4.4. At the competition day, the following rule hierarchy applies:
4.4.1. General rule document builds the base for rules in this category.
4.4.2. Game documents of the age group clarify the missions on the field and may add special game definitions (e.g. the orientation of the mat or starting position of the robot).
4.4.3. Questions & Answers (Q&A) can overwrite rules in game and general rule documents. Make sure to check Q&As frequently.
4.4.4. The judging team on the competition day has the final word in any decision. Decisions might be revisited if new facts or insights come up.

5. Robot material & regulations
Introduction: With the season 2025 we opened up RoboMission for any robots on the international level. The National Organizers are free to make changes to these rules for 2025. They are allowed to add further limitations regarding the robots.


5.1. Every team builds one robot to solve the challenges on the field. The maximum robot dimensions before the robot starts a run are 250 mm x 250 mm x 250 mm. Cables must be included in these dimensions. After the robot has started, the dimensions of the robot are not restricted.
5.2. Teams are allowed to use any materials and components to build the robot, as long as the following criteria are fulfilled:
5.2.1.
Total weight
<= 1,5 kg
5.2.2.
Battery
<= 8.000 mAh

When using batteries, teams must comply with the manufacturer's instructions for use and must not use the batteries outside the manufacturer's specifications.
5.2.3.
Voltage of electric components
<= 18 V
5.2.4.
Current / Amperage
<= 5A
5.2.5.
Start- and Stop-Button
One (1) obviously recognizable button is needed to start and stop the robot. This means the same button, that is used to start the robot, stops the robot as well. The button has to be placed on the outer side of the robot (not below) and needs to be easily identifiable and accessible. A physical button is preferred over a button on a touch screen. When the button is pressed during the run, every movement has to stop immediately.

Exception: The separate stop button of the EV3 can be used to stop a program as well.
5.2.6.
Sensors
There are no limitations on the type or number of sensors in general, but some components are limited to specific age groups. The usage of cameras is limited to the age groups Junior and Senior. The usage of LIDAR and other 3D Scanners is limited to the Senior age group.
5.2.7.
Motors
There are no limitations on the type of motors. The number of motors has different limits in the different age groups.
Elementary: 4 motors
Junior: 5 motors
Senior: 6 motors
5.2.8.
Wheels and tracks
Any kind of wheels (including omni wheels) or tracks can be used. Contact with the mat must be such that the mat is not damaged. In particular, pointed and metallic contact surfaces must be avoided.



Wheels are not allowed to leave sticky material on the field.
5.2.9. Mechanical
components (risk of injury)
Mechanical components must be designed in such a way that they do not pose a risk of injury. Robots that pose a risk of injury have to be modified on the request of Judges without discussion or will be excluded from the competition.
5.2.10. Electric and
electronic components (risk of injury)
Electric and electronic components must be designed in such a way that they do not pose a risk of injury. Robots that pose a risk of injury will be excluded from the competition. Modification is only permitted if there is no risk of injury to the team.
5.2.11. Gasses
Only normal air from the atmosphere may be used. All other gasses are not permitted.
5.2.12. Liquids
No liquids may be used for the robot. This also applies to oil or other lubricants.
5.2.13. Spray bottles
/ Aerosol bottles
It is not permitted to use any spray bottles with liquids or gasses. This applies in particular to cooling spray / ice spray and lubricants.
5.2.14. Pneumatic
systems
Pneumatic systems may be used. They can be filled by the robot itself after the start or by hand before the start. The maximum pressure must not exceed 3 bar. If the system is specified for a lower pressure, the specification is the upper limit. The maximum volume for tanks in the system is 150 ml.

A compressor for the pneumatic system is counted as a motor.
5.2.15. Hydraulic
systems
Hydraulic systems are not allowed.
5.2.16. Breakable
materials
It is not allowed to use any materials that can easily break in many pieces or that leave dangerous edges after breaking, like glass.
5.2.17. 3D printed
materials
3D printed materials and parts can be used. 3D printing during the competition is not allowed.
5.2.18. Laser
The usage of lasers is limited to lasers that do not provide a risk of safety. A certificate is needed, that the laser is save for eyes.
5.2.19. Important
note and Q&A
The open rules are new. If a team has great ideas, that differ much from the old way RoboMission worked, they should check with their National Organizer and the National Organizer with WRO, if that is ok. There will be updates and additions to this table in the Q&A. Check them regularly.
https://wro-association.org/competition/questions-answers/


5.3. Robots are not allowed to fly.
5.4. A team is allowed to bring and use only one full robot containing their controller(s) during the whole competition. The team can bring spare controllers and spare parts to the competition area. It is not allowed to bring a full spare chassis. A chassis is defined as an assembly with motorized mechanisms, sensors and a drivetrain axis ready to be powered by controller(s). As a rule of thumb: A team can bring all parts that are needed to repair their robot if something breaks, but it is not allowed to bring anything that gives the possibility to replace the (full) robot.
5.5. Teams can bring tools to repair or modify their robot. The tools must be safe, must not pose a major risk of injury, have to fit on the table of the team and must be battery operated. Especially the following items are not permitted: 3D printer, saws, soldering irons, knives.
5.6. A robot must be autonomous and finish the missions by itself. Any radio communication, remote control and wired control systems are not allowed while the robot is running. No wireless communication is allowed between components within the robot.
5.7. A team is not allowed to perform any actions or movements to interfere or assist the robot after randomizing of the game objects.
5.8. Any software to code the robot is allowed and teams can prepare the code before the competition day. If a team uses a software that requires an online connection (e.g. a browser-based tool), the team should check if there is an offline version for the competition day. The competition organizer is not responsible for providing an online infrastructure (e.g. WiFi for everyone). The online connection can only be used for coding. No communication or anything else is allowed.
5.9. Bluetooth, Wi-Fi or any remote connection must be switched off during check time and robot runs. If there is any doubt about this, the team must be able to show that wireless transmission has been deactivated and how this is done. If the team cannot do this, it is assumed that the wireless transmission has not been deactivated.
However, it is strongly recommended to transfer code via cable to avoid transfer problems (e.g. multiple devices with the same name) on the competition day. It is not allowed to interfere or obstruct any other team or robot with the remote connections a team uses.
5.10. Use of hardware (like SD cards or USB sticks) to store programs is allowed. The hardware must be inserted before the end of practice time and may not be removed until the next practice time starts.
5.11. A team should prepare and bring all the equipment, enough spare parts, software and portable computers (or other programming devices) that are needs during the tournament. Teams are not allowed to share a laptop and / or the program for a robot on the competition day. The competition organizer is not responsible for the maintenance or replacement of any material, not even in case of any accidents or malfunctions.
5.12. The robot and components can be marked (label, ribbons, mini-flags, etc.).
5.13. Teams can bring supportive materials such as measuring tape (to check the robot size) or pens and paper (to make notes). Documentation about the robot and games and rules is allowed as well.

6. Technical summary of the robot
Introduction: With the season 2025 we opened up RoboMission for any robots on the international level. The National Organizers are free to make changes to these rules in 2025. They are allowed to add further limitations regarding the robots.
6.1. Teams should bring a filled technical summary of their robot (see attachment B) on paper. The summary must reflect the actual robot. In addition, teams can be asked to upload it shortly before the competition.
6.2. The summary may not be longer than one (1) DIN A4 page or US LETTER.
6.3. Points can be awarded for bringing the filled summary or the summary can be a mandatory part of the competition. Points should not exceed more than 5 points. Points should be awarded primarily for whether the summary has been completed in full. There is no assessment of content.


7. Game table and equipment
7.1. In this category, the robot solves missions on a field. Every field consists of a game table (an even ground with borders) and a printed mat that is put into the game table. Every age group has its own mat because in every age group there are different missions to solve.
7.2. The dimensions of a WRO mat are 2362 mm x 1143 mm. Game tables have the same size or max. +/- 5mm in each dimension. The official height of the borders of a game table is 50mm, higher borders can be used as well.
7.3. The game mat must be printed with a matt finish/overlay (without reflecting colours!). The preferred printing material is a PVC tarp with around 510 g/m� (Frontlit). The material of the game mat should not be too soft (e.g. no mesh banner material).
7.4. The game elements for 2025 are built from the WRO Brick Set (no. 45811) and WRO Expansion Brick Set (no. 45819). Other materials, e.g. bricks from robotic sets or wood, paper or plastic, may be used to a limited extent to make the games more interesting.
7.5. If a game element is placed in the starting area at the beginning of the run, the object has to fit within the 250 mm x 250 mm x 250 mm (rule 5.1) together with the robot and the object cannot be taken off the mat (if not defined otherwise in the game document).
7.6. If game objects must be fixed on the game field, the organizers decide on the material to fix the objects unless the game rules specify it differently. For example, double sided tape or hook-and-loop tape.
7.7. It is not allowed to damage any objects on the field or the game mat itself. If an object is damaged, a potential score of the object does not count (unless the game document states it differently). If the robot damages any objects on purpose, the team can be disqualified from the round. This includes objects that do not score points.
7.8. The start area of the robot is exclusively the white area within a coloured border. The projection of the robot must be completely within the start area when starting.
7.9. If there is a different setup at a local / national / international competition (table size, borders, material of game mat etc.), the organizers of the competition should inform the teams upfront.
7.10. As you build and program, keep in mind that organizers make every effort to ensure that


all fields are correct and identical, but you should always expect some variability, such as:
7.10.1. Flaws on the fields
7.10.2. Variety in colour brightness on the game mat, from table to table
7.10.3. Variety in lighting conditions, from hour to hour, and/or table to table
7.10.4. Judges' shadow on the field
7.10.5. Judges will walk around the field during judging
7.10.6. Texture / bumps under the mat
7.10.7. Waviness in the mat itself. Location and severity of waviness varies.
7.10.8. Table not perfectly levelled.

8. Potential elements of a competition day
Introduction: This chapter outlines elements that can be used during a competition day. It is the responsibility of the National Organizer to choose the elements they want to use in their country. The attachment 0 contains examples of what the different elements could look like.
8.1. Season Challenge (obligatory)
The Season Challenge is the normal challenge that is published on 15th of January. Each age group has a separate game document that contains the challenges. The points for the technical summary (chapter 6) will be part of this. The Season Challenge has to be a part of every RoboMission competition. It could be used on its own or in combination with one or multiple other elements

8.2. Surprise Task / Surprise Rule
The Surprise Task and Surprise Rule are two slightly different concepts but often referred to under the same name. A Surprise Task is an additional task that teams can solve while solving the Season Challenge (e.g. an additional object that needs to be transported). In many cases the additional object is required to stay on the field but it is optional to transport it. A Surprise Rule is a small change to the existing Season Challenge that requires teams to solve it (e.g. switching the colour of objects). This enforces the teams to re-program their robot.
In both cases, these changes will be presented at the opening on the day of the competition and must be solved throughout the day as part of the Season Challenge. Additional points might be awarded.

8.3. Extra Task
An Extra Task is an additional task similar to a Surprise Task but it is communicated to the teams some time before the competition with the intention that teams can prepare before the event. This gives an interesting new challenge to the teams after they already worked on the Season Challenge for multiple weeks or months.
This concept could be used in every competition level but it fits better to 2nd round competitions like national finals after teams already went through locals or regionals. This concept has been used for the International Final 2024. An additional task was communicated to the participating teams in October.

8.4. Extra-Day-Challenge (aka 2nd-Day-Challenge)
The Extra-Day-Challenge (in the past 2nd-Day-Challenge) is held on a separate competition day. The already known game objects are mixed up with some new ones and will be relocated on the game field. This leads to new challenges that teams have to solve. Normally the new tasks contain little or no randomization. The separate day gives the teams more time (compared to an On-Day-Challenge - see next sub-chapter) to work on these more extensively changed challenges. This concept has been used for the International Final during the last few years.
For the ranking the best result from the Season Challenge is combined with the best result of the Extra-Day-Challenge. It could be a requirement that teams score points in both challenges to qualify for the next round.


8.5. On-Day-Challenge (aka Afternoon-Challenge)
The On-Day-Challenge is similar to the Extra-Day-Challenge. The only difference is that it is held on the same day as the Season Challenge. The challenges should be a bit easier (compared to an Extra-Day-Challenge) to make it possible to solve them on the same day with likely limited time.
For the ranking the best result from the Season Challenge is combined with the best result of the On-Day-Challenge. It could be a requirement that teams score points in both challenges to qualify for the next round.

8.6. Skill Test
Another option is to add a Skill Test to the competition day. This can be any check that is not directly related to the Season Challenge. For example, a technical judging of the robot could be an option. But it can be a separate task on a different mat that needs to be solved in a short period of time. A team interview is possible as well. It is up to the National Organizer to find a creative task for the teams and decide on how to include it in the ranking.

9. Tournament Format and Procedure
Introduction: This chapter explains different parts of the competition day. The format for an event is decided by the National Organizer or competition organizer. Chapter 8 explains different competition elements that can be used to assemble a competition day. Chapter 0 explains how the international final works.
9.1. The tournament in this category must consist of the following elements:
9.1.1. A number of practice times. Every tournament should start with a practice time to align for local circumstances (e.g. light conditions in the venue). Normally, there is no longer any assembly from individual parts, as this can no longer be done fairly with different robot systems.
9.1.2. A number of robot rounds. The robot rounds can consist of the Season Challenge only or can use different elements as listed in chapter 8.
9.2. Additional elements - listed or not listed in this rule document - can be added by the National Organizer.
9.3. Teams work in designated team areas and are only allowed to modify the construction or code of their own robot during practice times. If teams want to make test runs, they need to queue with their robot (controller included) in hand. No laptops should be brought to the competition table and no own mats should be brought to the team area. Teams need to calibrate their robots during practice time, not directly before an attempt. If there are different tables for practice and official robot attempts, the team may ask the judges to calibrate the sensors on the official game tables.
9.4. Coaches are not allowed to enter team areas to provide any instructions and guidance during the competition. Specified coaching times, where teams and coaches meet, can be defined. During such coaching times, coaches could bring notes to talk to the team but are not allowed to hand any materials to the team.
9.5. Before practice time is over, the teams must place their robots in the quarantine area. A robot that is not handed in on time cannot participate in the following round.


9.6. Once the practice time is over, the judges check the robots. After that they prepare the competition tables for the next round (including possible randomization of game objects).
9.7. Before the robot is placed in quarantine, the robot must be ready to go. Only one further push on the start button is allowed to start a run. Any wireless communication has to be turned off.
9.8. During check-time, the judges will inspect the robot and check all regulations. If a violation is found at the inspection, the judge will give the team three minutes to convert the violation. It is not allowed to transfer new programs during these three minutes. If the violation cannot be solved during the time, the team is disqualified for this attempt (see 10.11).
9.9. In the case of a competition lasting several days, the organizers can define that the robots remain in the quarantine areas overnight. If charging at the robot parking is not possible, the battery may be removed and charged overnight.
9.10. It is suggested that every participant receives a participation, bronze, silver and gold certificate based on the robot performance based on the following table (see below). Competition organizers can decide to only do a ranking based on these criteria (without a ranking of placements 1st, 2nd, 3rd) or to award these certificates additional.

% of total points (in age group) in best robot attempt
Certificate
< 25%
Participation
25-50%
Bronze
50-75%
Silver
> 75%
Gold

Example: If the best robot attempt of team on a competition day results in 130 of 200 points in total, then the team will get a silver certificate (130/200 => 65% of the points).

10. Robot attempt
10.1. Each robot attempt is 2 minutes. Time begins when the judge gives the signal to start.
10.2. The robot must be placed in the starting area so the projection of the robot on the game mat is completely within the start area. The participants are allowed to make physical adjustments to the robot in the starting area. However, it is not allowed to enter data to a program by changing positions or orientation of the robot parts or to make any sensor calibrations of the robot. For example, adjusting an arm of the robot to a specific degree, to input information, is not allowed. Entering data in any way is not allowed. If entering data is suspected, the team will be investigated by the Judges.
10.3. A start module / start frame can be used to adjust the position robot of the robot. The module needs to fit into the size requirements together with the robot. It can be used within or outside the start area, but has to be removed before the start of the run.
10.4. If the robot loses any parts on the field, these parts are considered free and do not belong to the robot anymore, but stay on the field. It is not allowed to lose the controller,


motors or sensors. In that case the attempt will be scored with 0 points and 120 seconds.
10.5. Only one press of the start button is allowed to set the robot in motion. If further preparation is needed, this needs to be done before the quarantine.
10.6. If there is any uncertainty during the robot attempt, the judge makes the final decision. The judge should decide in favour of the team if no clear decision is possible.
10.7. A robot attempt will end if...
10.7.1. the robot attempt time (2 minutes) has ended.
10.7.2. any team member touches the robot or any mission objects on the table during the run.
10.7.3. the robot has completely left the game table.
10.7.4. the robot or the team violated rules or regulations.
10.7.5. a team member shouts "STOP" and the robot does not move anymore. If the robot is still moving, the robot attempt will only end once the robot stops by itself or is stopped by the team or judge.
10.8. Once the robot attempt has ended, time is stopped and the judge scores the attempt based on the situation on the field at this point of time. Time is recorded in full seconds only. The points are awarded based on the randomization at the beginning of the run. The scores are noted on a scoring sheet (on paper or digital), the team needs to sign off the scores (on paper or digital signature/checkbox). Once the score is signed off no further complaint from the team is possible.
10.9. If a team does not want to sign off after a certain period of time, the judge can decide to disqualify the team for this round. It is not allowed that a team coach joins the discussion with judges on the scoring of the run. Video or photo proofs will not be accepted.
10.10. If a team touches or changes the task objects on the playing field during the attempt, the team will be disqualified for this round.
10.11. A disqualification of a team in a round will result in a robot attempt with the worst possible score (usually 0) and maximum time (120 seconds).
10.12. If a team finishes an attempt without having solved a (partial) task (of the normal season challenge) that yields positive points, the time of that run will be set at 120 seconds.
10.13. The ranking of teams depends on the overall tournament format. For example, the best attempt out of three rounds could be used and if competing teams have the same points, the ranking is decided by the record of time.

11. Format and ranking at WRO International Final
Introduction: This chapter shows the potential tournament mode of the International Final. There might be adjustments to this format because of the big changes in this year's rules. It is our goal to give the best experience and fairest competition to all teams and we will make necessary adjustments to achieve this goal.
11.1. The WRO International Final is a three-day event:
* Day 1: This day is used for practice. Teams have plenty of time (multiple hours) to test their robot at the competition tables. There will be a test round in the afternoon, that is scored by the Judges. The round has no influence on the ranking and is only used to test all processes. This is very important for everyone including teams, coaches and judges.
* Day 2: Season Challenge with at least three runs per team. The practice time will at least be 90 min, 60 min and 60 min.
* Day 3: Extra-Day-Challenge with at least two scored runs per team. Deadlines are used to hand in robots for the attempts, but we immediately continue with practise after all teams finished.
* The time of practice can be extended pending on the overall schedule.
11.2. For this tournament format, the following ranking criteria would apply:
* Sum of points from best run from Season Challenge and best run from Extra-Day- Challenge
* Sum of time from best run from Season Challenge and best run from Extra-Day- Challenge
* Points of best run from Extra-Day-Challenge
* Time of best run from Extra-Day-Challenge
* Points of 2. best run from Season Challenge
* Time of 2. best run from Season Challenge
* Points of 2. best run from Extra-Day-Challenge
* Time of 2. best run from Extra-Day-Challenge
* After that, teams are ranked in the same place.
11.3. Teams have to provide a technical summary. The summary is mandatory but will not score points. I digital version has to be submitted before the event.
11.4. The Host Country and WRO can decide together on a different format (e.g. different time/number of practice time/rounds), but need to inform all teams in time before the event on the competition schedule.
11.5. Every team/participant at the international final will receive a participation, bronze, silver or gold certificate based on the sum of points from best run from Season Challenge and best run from Extra-Day-Challenge. The exact procedure for awarding these certificates will be shared with teams before the International Final.

A. Glossary

Check Time
During the check time, the judge will take a look at the robot and check the measurements (e.g. with a cube or a folding rule) and other technical requirements (e.g. Bluetooth off etc.). A check needs to be done before
every official robot attempt, not during practice time.
Coach
A person assisting a team in the process to learn different robotics aspects, teamwork, problem solving, time management, etc. The role of the coach is not to win the competition for the team, but to teach them and guide them through the problem identification and in discovering ways to
solve the competition challenge.
Competition organizer
The competition organizer is the entity that hosts the competition a team is visiting. This can be a local school, the National Organizer of a country that runs the National Final or a WRO Host Country together with WRO
Association running the International WRO Final.
Practice Time
During the practice time, the team can test the robot on the field and the team can change mechanical aspects or the coding of the robot. In case of an event where teams need to assemble the robot, the teams will do
that at the start of the first practice time.
(Robot) Attempt
A robot attempt is the official try to solve the missions on the field. A robot attempt will be scored by judges and is maximum 2 minutes long. Teams usually do multiple attempts during practice time to test the robot
before the official attempts.
Robot Round
During one robot round, every team will run their robot on the game field. Every round contains a Check-Time before the actual runs start. Before the round starts with the first team but after all robots are placed on the
robot parking, randomizations to game fields (if any) are done.
Quarantine Area
/ Robot Parking
Quarantine area or robot parking is the place where all teams must place
their robot before the practice time is over.
Coaching time
This is an optional time the competition organizer can schedule. The coaches are allowed to talk with the team and discuss the strategy for the competition. It is not allowed that any programs or robot parts are
handed over or that the coach helps coding or building during this time.
Technical
summary
A document that shows the key facts of the robot on one page.
Team
In this document the word team includes the 2-3 participants (students)
of a team, not the coach who should only support the team.
WRO
In this document, WRO stands for World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd., the non-profit organization running WRO world-wide and that
prepares all the game and rule documents.

B. Template Technical Summary

Team name
Name of the team
Team number
If every team has a number, enter the number here.
Team members
Name of team members (first names only)
Team coach
Full name
Robotic set
e.g. LEGO, fischertechnik or self-assembled set
Weight
1,1 kg
Size
20 cm X 15 cm X 15 cm
Building materials
e.g. LEGO technic, fischertechnik building system, 3D printed material, Wood...
Controllers
e.g. LEGO SPIKE Prime, VEX IQ, Arduino nano
Battery
e.g. 7,5 V / 2.200 mAh
Sensors
List the type and number of sensors, e.g.:
2x color sensors, 1x distance sensor, 3x rotation sensors (one in each motor), 1x gyro sensor...
Motors
List the type and number of motors, e.g.:
2x LEGO Medium Angular Motor, 1x VEX IQ Smart Motor
Pneumatic system
Not used // Yes, LEGO Pneumatic system, max. pressure around 2 bar, 140 ml tanks
Programming Environment & language
LEGO SPIKE Prime App / Block programming Python
Picture of robot with start- and stop-button marked



C. List of potential robotic sets
Introduction: This is a list of potential robotic sets for the RoboMission competition. The category is not limited to this list.


Partners, Sponsors and supporters of WRO





     Fischertechnik STEM Coding RoboMission



ELECFREAKS
Nezha Pro



Olibots



ROBOROBO AIKIRO SERIES



Legacy of RoboMission - LEGO platforms

LEGO SPIKE Prime
LEGO MINDSTORMS EV3

D. Examples and explanations for competition elements
Important: Everything in this chapter is provided as examples and building blocks to build a RoboMission competition. It is up to the National Organizer to decide on the competition mode in a country and create a detailed schedule for the event.
D.1. Season Challenge
The Season Challenge is the normal challenge that is published on 15th of January.



Overview of Elementary 2024



Randomization per round

Score Sheet

Season Challenge
Each
Max.
#
Total
1. Collect ripe and rotten vegetables
Red vegetable completely in market area
11
44


Red vegetable partly in the market area
4



Yellow vegetable completely in the compost area
11
44


Yellow vegetable partly in the compost area
4



2. Water thirsty vegetables and prepare farming
Water element is touching the green square around a green vegetable and the green vegetable is still touching the green square as well (max. one water element per green square counts)
10
30


Earth block is no longer touching any green square area
3
9


3. Bonus for Fences & Chicken
Chicken is not damaged or moved

3


Fence is not damaged or moved
3
12


Maximum Score

142


Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds





Technical Summary
The technical summary is an additional element that should help the Judges to handle different robots (see chapter 6 and attachment B). This summary should be checked during the first quarantine and scores the same points the whole day. When awarding points, the focus should only be on whether the technical summary has been completed. Not how good the quality is. An additional row in the score sheet will be introduced to fill in these points between "Maximum Score" and "Total Score in this run".

The rest of the score sheet is not shown here to simplify the view.
Maximum Score

142


Points for Technical Summary
(max. 5 points)

Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds


Schedule
? Opening ceremony
? Practise time (60 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 1. Round
? Practise time (60 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 2. Round
? Practise time (30 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 3. Round
? Practise time (30 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 4. Round
? Closing ceremony


Ranking

...by the best run first
? Points of 1. best run
? Time of 1. best run
? Points of 2. best run
? Time of 2. best run
? Points of 3. best run
? Time of 3. best run
? Points of 4. best run
? Time of 4. best run
? After that, teams are ranked the same place.
..by the sum of the two best run first
? Sum of points of 1. best run and points of 2. best run
? Sum of time of 1. best run and points of 2. best run
? Points of 3. best run
? Time of 3. best run
? Points of 4. best run
? Time of 4. best run
? After that, teams are ranked the same place.


D.2. Surprise Task / Surprise Rule
Surprise Tasks and Surprise Rules offer an addition to the Season Challenge without changing the overall competition day not too much.



Example for a Surprise Task in Elementary.
Surprise Tasks offer additional points. (Example from season 2024)


Example for a Surprise Rule in Elementary. Meaning of existing objects is switched. (Example from season 2024)

Score Sheet
The scoresheet of the task stays the same. An additional line is inserted for the Surprise Task.

The rest of the score sheet is not shown here to simplify the view.
Maximum Score

142


Points for Surprise Task

Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds


Schedule
The schedule is similar to the schedule of the Season Challenge. Surprise Rules or Tasks will be presented during the opening ceremony.


Ranking
The ranking is identical to the ranking for Season Challenge. Additional points for Surprise Tasks are added in the score sheet for each round.


D.3. Extra Task
An Extra Task is an additional task that is published some time before the competition (a few weeks to 1-2 months). The Extra Task offers additional elements on the game field to score more points. It can be a bigger or more complex task than a Surprise Task because teams can prepare it before the competition.


Score Sheet
An additional block with points is added to the normal score sheet.

The rest of the score sheet is not shown here to simplify the view.
3. Bonus for Fences & Chicken
Chicken is not damaged or moved

3


Fence is not damaged or moved
3
12


Extra Task: Bring the table tennis balls into the greenhouses
Ball in the greenhouse (only one ball per greenhouse)
20
40


Maximum Score

182


Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds



Schedule
The schedule at the competition day is similar to the schedule of the Season Challenge. The Extra Task will be communicated to teams before the competition (a few weeks to 1-2 months before) and could be repeated during the opening ceremony.


Ranking
The ranking is identical to the ranking for Season Challenge. Additional points for Surprise Tasks are added in the score sheet for each round.


D.4. Extra-Day-Challenge (aka 2nd-Day-Challenge)
The Extra-Day-Challenge (in the past 2nd-Day-Challenge) is held on a separate competition day. It mixes existing objects with new ones and relocates everything on the table to create a new challenge.
The following example is the Extra-Day-Challenge of the German Nation Final 2024.





Score Sheet
The Extra-Day-Challenge gets its own score sheet.

Extra-Day-Challenge
Each
Max.
#
Total
1. Bring all fruits to the market
Fruit touches the red market
10
110


2. Add water and soil to the compost
Block touches compost area (including dark brown frame)
5
30


3. Bring the table tennis balls into the greenhouses
Table tennis ball within greenhouse (only one ball per greenhouse)
10
20


Maximum Score

160


Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds


Schedule
The competition is divided over multiple days. The following example shows a two-day competition. Add the international final there is another day before the two competition days used for practice only.


Day 1
? Opening ceremony
? Practise time (60 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 1. Round - Season Challenge
? Practise time (60 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 2. Round - Season Challenge
? Practise time (60 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 3. Round - Season Challenge
Day 2
? Presentation of Extra-Day-Challenge
? Practise time (120 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 1. Round - Extra-Day-Challenge
? Practise time (90 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 2. Round - Extra-Day-Challenge
? Closing ceremony

Ranking
The ranking is calculated from the best run of the Season Challenge and the best run of the Extra-Day-Challenge. The following example prioritizes the Extra-Day-Challenge over the Season Challenge. This can be done vice versa by changing line 3 & 4 from "Extra-Day- Challenge" to "Season Challenge" (marked in blue).
? Sum of points from best run from Season Challenge and best run from Extra-Day- Challenge
? Sum of time from best run from Season Challenge and best run from Extra-Day- Challenge
? Points of best run from Extra-Day-Challenge
? Time of best run from Extra-Day-Challenge
? Points of 2. best run from Season Challenge
? Time of 2. best run from Season Challenge
? Points of 2. best run from Extra-Day-Challenge
? Time of 2. best run from Extra-Day-Challenge
? After that, teams are ranked in the same place.


D.5. On-Day-Challenge (aka Afternoon-Challenge)
The On-Day-Challenge is quite similar to the Extra-Day-Challenge. It is held on the same competition day instead of another day. The example from the Extra-Day-Challenge can be used as On-Day-Challenge well. Maybe some changes could be made like reducing the number of fruits to adjust it to the less available time during a one-day competition.


Score Sheet
The On-Day-Challenge gets its own score sheet.

On-Day-Challenge
Each
Max.
#
Total
Red: Bring the chicken to the compost area
Chicken is completely in the compost area
15
15


Green: Add water and soil to the compost
The broccoli is completely on a bush (green circle)
20
20


The broccoli is partially on a bush (green circle)
10
10


Blue: Bring the tomato in the market
The tomato is fully on the market
20
20


Yellow: Bring the tomato in the market
The pineapple is fully in the brown vegetable area (bottom right)
20
20


Bonus: Protect the fences


The fences are not moved or damaged
4
16


Maximum Score

91


Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds


Schedule
The schedule is quite similar to a competition day with Season Challenge only. The practise times in the morning are a little bit shorter and, in the afternoon, longer to give more time for the On-Day-Challenge.
? Opening ceremony
? Practise time (30 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 1. Round - Season Challenge
? Practise time (30 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 2. Round - Season Challenge
? Announcement of On-Day-Challenge
? Practise time (120 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 1. Round - On-Day-Challenge
? Practise time (60 min)
? Quarantine / Robot Check
? 2. Round - On-Day-Challenge
? Closing ceremony


Ranking
The ranking is similar to the Extra-Day-Challenge. Simply replace "Extra-Day-Challenge" with "On-Day-Challenge".


D.6. Skill Test
The skill test can be any element to check the skills of the team. It can be an additional task that teams have to solve on the spot, a technical Judging, a quiz or a team interview. There are no limits to the creativity of the National Organizers or the competition organizers.
This document will present one example for a skill test during the day.



Game field with a start area and lines in different colours.


The lines mark positions for wooden barriers. Each set of lines (lines of the same colour) create a different setup on the field. Teams start their robot from the start and have to reach as many corners (black hexagons) without touching the wood in a period of 15 minutes.

Schedule
Each team is taken out of the actual competition for 20 minutes to solve this challenge. To make it fair it should be in the same competition period for all teams (e.g. all during practice). 5 minutes are used for explanation and setup. The team can use up to 15 minutes to test and program their robot. The robot has to reach the corners in an announced run.


Ranking
The result of the skill test can be added to each run or can be scored as an additional Challenge like Extra-Day- or On-Day-Challenge. Another option is to get a good result in the Skill Test is a condition for qualification to the next round.


Ideas?
If you have ideas for Skill Tests, that should be part of this attachment or used during the international events, please share them with us: skill-test [at] wro-association [dot] org

E. Additional ideas
This chapter provides additional ideas that could be used by the National Organizer to assemble their competition. This concept will not be used on an international level.
E.1. Classes for different robots
One way to balance the competition for different robots is to introduce classes. Classes could be for example: LEGO and Other. In the competition, a common ranking can then be formed across all classes, but also an individual ranking per class. This gives e.g. the opportunity to award the best LEGO robot and the best overall robot. The classes can also be used to determine the qualification for the next round. For example, the best overall team and the best LEGO team could be sent on to the next round. Important: If this is used to qualify for international events, the National Organizer must check whether there are enough starting slots available. No additional slots will be made available to qualify teams in classes.
National Organizers might use this concept as long as their current agreement with WRO is valid. We expect countries to develop in the direction of an open competition.


RoboMission
Junior Game Rules
Season 2025






The Future of Robots
Mars Exploration

Official Game Rules for the WRO International Final. Version: January 15th 2025 (Note: Rules for local WRO events may vary!)

WRO International Premium Partner




WRO International Gold Partners

Table of Contents
1. Introduction	2
2. Game Field	2
3. Game Objects, Positioning, Randomization	3
3.1 Collect the drone	8
3.2 Help the stranded rover	8
3.3 Support research on mars	9
3.4 Water supply	10
3.5 Cross rough terrain	11
3.6 Bonus for rocks and barriers	11
4. Scoring Sheet	13



Important information for reading this document:
* The general rules have changed drastically for 2025. Make sure to read them entirely.
* These game rules are made for local and national competitions.
* National Organizers in WRO countries are allowed to simplify the missions.
* For the International Final, one extra mission will be released on October 8th 2025. The extra challenge will work with the same game mat and brick set. It is not mandatory to do this extra mission to participate in the event.
* Because of possible surprise rules and the extra mission for the International Final, the game field may contain areas and markings that are not used at local or national events.
* For greater clarity, the robot missions are explained in multiple sections. But the teams can decide which missions they will do and which order.
* The game missions have easy and more complicated tasks. This makes the competition suitable for beginning and more experience teams. It is not necessary to solve all missions to enjoy a WRO participation.
* General information on game table setup and fixing of game objects on the field you find in the WRO RoboMission General Rules, chapter 7.
We wish everyone much success and a lot of fun with our WRO 2025 challenges! Your team of World Robot Olympiad Association

1. Introduction

The exploration and colonization of Mars is a great example of how robots can help us in the future. Robots will play a key role in making Mars missions safer, faster, and more efficient. Once on Mars, robots can assist by building shelters, exploring dangerous areas, and collecting valuable research samples, like soil and rock, that help us understand the planet's history and potential for life. By handling these challenging tasks, robots make it possible for humans to focus on exploration and discovery, showing just how important they will be in helping us build a future on Mars-and beyond.

Can your robot help us to explore and colonialize Mars?


2. Game Field
The following graphic shows the game field with the different areas.


If the table is larger than the game mat, place the mat against the wall with the two sides closer to the start area (in the picture: left and bottom side).

3. Game Objects, Positioning, Randomization

Drone
There is a drone on the field. The position on the game field is on the bottom end of the field in the centre.


Drone


Position on the field

Mars rover
There is a mars rover on the field. The position is marked in blue on the field.


Mars rover


Position on the field

Research samples
There are 4 research samples (green, red, white and yellow) on the field. The position in the middle of the field. The four samples are randomly placed on the 6 available positions.


Research Samples


Position on the field


Water storage system
The water storage system is placed on the left end of the field. It consists of a dispenser with 2 water tanks and a box as receiver. The dispenser and the box are connected with long axels and the release of the balls by opening and closing the box.


Dispenser


Water tanks


Start position of the dispenser with two balls included




Note: The balls can be pushed out by opening and closing the box.




Box


Position on the field

The dispenser and the box will be fixed to the game field with adhesive tape.


Adhesive tape on the bottom of the box


Adhesive tape on the bottom of the dispenser


Rough terrain
The field contains an area with rough train. The terrain contains out of multiple axels and 2x2 black bricks. The 2x2 bricks are fixed on the table with adhesive tape. The axels aren't fixed and can be moved by the robot.


System control


Adhesive tape on the bottom of the 2x2 bricks

Barriers and rocks
There are 2 barriers and 6 rocks on the field. The barriers are next to the target area. The rocks are around the rough terrain.


Barriers


Rocks


Position on the field

Summary randomization
On this field, the following objects are randomly placed in each round:
* 4 samples randomly on the 6 positions for samples in the middle of the field.

You can see one possible randomization here (only randomized objects are marked):


Robot Missions
3.1 Collect the drone
A drone is placed on the lower end of the game field in the middle. Collect the drone and bring it into the starting area.
* Definition "completely in": Completely means that the game object is touching the corresponding area only.


Each
Max.
The drone is completely in the start area.
10
10
The drone is touching in the start area.
5



    10 points (completely inside)


    10 points (completely inside)


  5 points (partly inside)


0 points
(not in start area)



3.2 Help the stranded rover
A stranded rover is placed in the middle of the field. One of the rovers' solar panels could not unfold automatically. Help the rover to unfold the solar panel.


Each
Max.
Unfolded solar panel and rover still touching the area.
10
10




10 points
(panel unfloded and rover in starting position)


10 points
(panel unfloded and rover moved but still touching the starting position)


0 points
(panel unfloded but moved completely outside of starting position)


     0 points (panel still jammed)


    0 points (rover is broken)



Hint: The solar panel needs to be completely horizonzal to score points.



3.3 Support research on mars
There are multiple research samples in the middle of the game field. Collect the samples and bring them to the hexagonal research lab of the corresponding colour.
* Definition "completely in": Completely means that the game object is touching the corresponding area only.
* Only one element scores points per target area.




Each
Max.
Research sample is completely in the corresponding coloured research lab.
15
60
Research sample is touching any lab or completely in the wrong- coloured lab.
10





      15 points (completely inside and
correct colour)


      15 points (completely inside and
correct colour)


10 points
(only touching and colour of lab does not matter)


10 points
(only partly in and colour of lab does not matter)


       10 points (completely inside, colour
does not match)


    0 points (not touching the
research lab)

3.4 Water supply
The water supply is needed for the survival of humans on mars. Help with the transportation of water tanks. A water tank counts as in the box, when it only touching the box or another water tank but nothing else.


Each
Max.
Water tank is in box
20
40


20 points
(one ball in the box)


    2x 20 points (two balls in the box)


2x 20 points
(two balls in the box, no matter if open or closed)

3.5 Cross rough terrain
An interesting research target is located behind rough terrain. Cross the terrain and park the robot in the target area.
* Definition "completely in": Completely means that the robot is touching the corresponding area only.


Each
Max.
Robot is completely in target area
12
12


     12 points (robot is completely
in target area)


    0 points (robot is touching
outside of target area)

Hint: It is not allowed to remove the black bricks from the mat by force.

 Hint: The position will be checked at the end of the run after the robot stopped.


3.6 Bonus for rocks and barriers
The navigation on mars needs precision. It is not allowed to move or damage rocks and barriers. The playing field does not provide any tolerances for moving the barriers. Minimal shifts that may have been caused by imprecise positioning before the run, have to be counted in favour of the team in case of doubt. Final decision of this is with the judge.
* Definition "damaged": Any situation that means that the game object is not exactly like at the start of the run, e.g. a brick fell off.
* Definition "moved": The game object is considered as moved if a part of the game object is touching the mat outside of the defined areas.
* Only one element scores points per target area.




Each
Max.
Barrier is not damaged or moved
8
16
Rock is not damaged or moved
3
18




8 points (barrier still
on starting position)


   0 points (barrier moved)


     0 points (barrier damaged)


3 points
(rock within grey area)


  0 points (rock moved)


    0 points (rock damaged)

4. Scoring Sheet

Team name: 		Round: 	

Tasks
Each
Max.
#
Total
Collect the drone
The drone is completely in the start area.
10
10


The drone is touching in the start area.
5



Help the stranded rover
Unfolded solar panel and rover still touching the area.
10
10


Support research on mars
Research sample is completely in the corresponding coloured research lab.
15
60


Research sample is touching any lab or completely in the wrong-coloured lab.
10



Water supply
Water tank is in box
20
40


Cross rough terrain
Robot is completely in target area
12
12


Bonus for barriers
Barrier is not damaged or moved
8
16


Rock is not damaged or moved
3
18


Maximum Score

166


Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds



RoboMission
Senior Game Rules
Season 2025






The Future of Robots
Rocket Assembly

Official Game Rules for the WRO International Final. Version: January 15th 2025 (Note: Rules for local WRO events may vary!)


WRO International Premium Partner



WRO International Gold Partners

Table of Contents
1. Introduction	2
2. Game Field	2
3. Game Objects, Positioning, Randomization	3
3.1 Assemble the rocket nose	9
3.2 Integrate rocket sections	9
3.3 Load the rocket	11
3.4 Check systems	11
3.5 Close the hatches	13
3.6 Bonus for barriers	13
4. Scoring Sheet	15



Important information for reading this document:
* The general rules have changed drastically for 2025. Make sure to read them entirely.
* These game rules are made for local and national competitions.
* National Organizers in WRO countries are allowed to simplify the missions.
* For the International Final, one extra mission will be released on October 8th 2025. The extra challenge will work with the same game mat and brick set. It is not mandatory to do this extra mission to participate in the event.
* Because of possible surprise rules and the extra mission for the International Final, the game field may contain areas and markings that are not used at local or national events.
* For greater clarity, the robot missions are explained in multiple sections. But the teams can decide which missions they will do and which order.
* The game missions have easy and more complicated tasks. This makes the competition suitable for beginning and more experience teams. It is not necessary to solve all missions to enjoy a WRO participation.
* General information on game table setup and fixing of game objects on the field you find in the WRO RoboMission General Rules, chapter 7.
We wish everyone much success and a lot of fun with our WRO 2025 challenges! Your team of World Robot Olympiad Association

1. Introduction

Launching rockets into space is crucial for advancing society by enabling scientific exploration, satellite deployment, global communications, and the development of new technologies. It allows humanity to better understand the universe, monitor Earth's environment, and improve global connectivity. Building and assembling rockets requires extreme precision, as even minor errors in design or construction can lead to catastrophic failures. Every component must be accurately aligned, from the fuel systems to navigation controls, to ensure a successful launch. Robots play a vital role in this process, supporting tasks such as welding, drilling, and assembling intricate parts with unparalleled accuracy and consistency, reducing human error, and speeding up the manufacturing process. This automation ensures higher quality, safety, and efficiency in rocket assembly.

Can your robot help assembling the rocket and make it ready for a space launch?


2. Game Field
The following graphic shows the game field with the different areas.


1) Rocket integration: Positions of corresponding marking blocks are on the other side of the barriers.

2) Payload target area: Position of marking block is on the right side next to the target area.



If the table is larger than the game mat, place the mat against the wall with the two sides closer to the start area (in the picture: left and bottom side).

3. Game Objects, Positioning, Randomization

Rocket nose parts
There are 2 rocket nose parts (1x red, 1x yellow) on the field. The position on the game field is in the bottom right corner.


Rocket nose parts


Position on the field

Bolts and marking blocks for rocket integration
There are 4 bolts (1x green, 1x blue, 1x yellow, 1x red) on the field. The position on the game field is in the top left corner on the coloured squares.


Bolts


Position on the field

There are 4 marking blocks (1x green, 1x blue, 1x yellow, 1x red) on the field. The positions are grey rectangles on the upper end of the field next to the barriers. Which colour fills which position is randomized.



Marking blocks



All 4 marking blocks are always on the game field. The positions are randomized. The following pictures show one potential randomization.


2 marking blocks are placed on the right side of the left barrier


2 marking blocks are placed on the left side of the right barrier


Payload with marking block
There is 1 payload on the field. The position on the game field is directly next to the starting area. The orientation of the payload is marked on the game field.


Payload


Position on the field

There are 4 additional marking blocks (1x green, 1x blue, 1x yellow, 1x red) but only one is chosen randomly and placed on the field. The position is the brown rectangle next to the payload target area.


Marking blocks


One marking block is placed next to the payload target area.

System control
There is 1 system control on the field. The position is marked by two black rectangles at the left end of the rocket. The system console is fixed on the game field with double- sided adhesive tape. The white flag on the left pole points to the left. The red flag on the right pole points downwards / to the back.


System control


Position on the field




Hatches
There are 2 hatches (1x yellow, 1x red) on the field. The positions are marked in red and orange. The hatches are fixed on playing field with double-sided adhesive tape.


Red hatch (sliding)


Position on the field


Recommended positions of double-sided adhesive tape.




Yellow hatch (swinging)


Position on the field


Recommended positions of double-sided adhesive tape. It is recommended to add additional double-sided adhesive tape between game mat and game table below the yellow hatch.

Barriers
There are 2 barriers (1x short, 1x long) on the field. The positions are marked with red rectangles.


Barriers






The flat sides of the panels on the barriers face inwards towards each other.







Summary randomization
On this field, the following objects are randomly placed in each round:
* 4 marking blocks for rocket integration
* 1 marking block for the payload integration
You can see one possible randomization here (only randomized objects are marked):



Robot Missions
3.1 Assemble the rocket nose
Two rocket nose parts are placed in the bottom right corner of the game field. The rocket nose can be assembled by bringing the two nose parts to the correct coloured areas. Full points are awarded if the parts are completely and upright in the correct coloured area.
* Definition "completely in": Completely means that the game object is touching the corresponding area only.
* Only one element scores points per target area.


Each
Max.
The nose part is completely and upright in the correct coloured rocket nose target area.
10
20
The nose part is completely and upright in the wrong-coloured rocket nose target area.
5



       10 points (completely inside and in
upright position)


0 points
(partly outside of area)


0 points
(partly is outside of area)


0 points
(not in upright position)


5 points
(fully in and upright, but wrong colour)


  0 points (not upright)

3.2 Integrate rocket sections
The rocket is divided in three parts by the barriers. The matching bolts must be used to firmly connect the parts together. The marking blocks on the other side of the barriers show which bolt is needed.
* Definition "completely in": Completely means that the game object is touching the corresponding area only.

* Only one element scores points per target area.
* The white borders around the rocket integration areas are not part of the areas.


Each
Max.
Bolt is completely in the rocket integration area and its colour is matching the colour of the corresponding marking block
12
48
Bolt is partly touching any rocket integration area or completely in but not matching the colour of the corresponding marking block
5



12 points
(correct coloured bolt completely in area)


12 points
(Bolt does not have to be upright)


5 points
(bolt partly in area)


           5 points (completely in but wrong colour)


5 points
(partly in and wrong colour)


0 points
(bolt not touching target area)



3.3 Load the rocket
The job of a rocket is to transport cargo into space. Bring the payload into the rocket and make sure it is placed correctly.
* Definition "completely in": Completely means that the game object is touching the corresponding area only.
* The white border around the payload area is not part of the area.


Each
Max.
Payload is fully in the payload area and has the correct orientation
28
28
Payload is partly touching the payload area (no matter which orientation)
or fully in but has the wrong orientation
14



      28 points (completely inside and
correct orientation)


      14 points (completely inside, but
wrong orientation)
Hint: The payload is correctly orientated if the side facing the marking block has the same colour as the marking block. Due to the size of the payload and the target area, a clear alignment can always be recognized when the payload is completely in the target area.


    14 points (only partly inside,
orientation not relevant)


    14 points (only partly inside,
orientation not relevant)


0 points
(not touching target area)

3.4 Check systems
Before a rocket can be launched, all systems must be tested. This test is carried out on the system console. The two operations on the system console are interlocked and must be operated in the correct order. The first operation is pushing down on the left side and the second operation is pulling the lever on the right side. The result is checked by the positions of the flags.



Each
Max.
Flag in system console is in upright position
15
30


   15 points (flag is upright)


This block must be able to move freely under the flag in order to score points. If a flag has been twisted, it must be turned to its original orientation before the test.


0 points
(flag not high enough)


15 points
(flag is fully upright)


0 points
(no flag, no points)


3.5 Close the hatches
Two hatches are on the field. The yellow one is a swinging hatch. The red one is a sliding hatch. Both hatches score points when they are fully closed. The following table shows when hatches are considered closed.


Each
Max.
Hatch is fully closed
* Yellow: Swinging part is completely in yellow area
* Red: Sliding part touches red rectangle
9
18


9 points
(fully closed, completely in yellow area)


        0 points (touching outside of yellow
area)


        0 points (touching outside of yellow
area)


9 points
(fully closed, touching red rectangle)


9 points
(fully closed, touching a little bit is enough)


0 points
(not reaching red rectangle)


3.6 Bonus for barriers
Working on a rocket requires absolute precision. It is therefore not permitted to move the two barriers. The playing field does not provide any tolerances for moving. Minimal shifts that may have been caused by imprecise positioning before the run, have to be counted in favour of the team in case of doubt. Final decision of this is with the judge.
* Definition "damaged": Any situation that means that the game object is not exactly like at the start of the run, e.g. a brick fell off.
* Definition "moved": The game object is considered as moved if a part of the game object is touching the mat outside of the red areas.


Each
Max.
Barrier is not damaged or moved
7
14




7 points
(barrier still on red area)


   0 points (barrier moved)


     0 points (barrier damaged)

4. Scoring Sheet

Team name: 		Round: 	

Tasks
Each
Max.
#
Total
Assemble the rocket nose
The nose part is completely and upright in the correct coloured rocket nose target area.
10
20


The nose part is completely and upright in the wrong-coloured rocket nose target area.
5



Integrate rocket sections
Bolt is completely in the rocket integration area and its colour is matching the colour of the corresponding marking block
12
48


Bolt is partly touching any rocket integration area or completely in but not matching the colour of the corresponding marking block
5



Load the rocket
Payload is fully in the payload area and has the correct orientation
28
28


Payload is partly touching the payload area (no matter which orientation)
or fully in but has the wrong orientation
14



Check systems
Flag in system console is in upright position
15
30


Close the hatches
Hatch is fully closed
* Yellow: Swinging part is completely in yellow area
* Red: Sliding part touches red rectangle
9
18


Bonus for barriers
Barrier is not damaged or moved
7
14


Maximum Score

158


Total Score in this run

Time in full seconds


VERSION: JANUARY 15TH 2025






ROBO


TEAMS COMPETE WITH 2 ROBOTS IN AN EXCITING GAME



AGE GROUP:
11-19

WRO(r) 2025






WRO international premium partner






WRO international gold partners




Table of Contents
1. General information	3
2. Team and Age Groups definitions	4
3. Responsibilities and team's own work	4
4. Game documents and rule hierarchy	5
5. WRO Double Tennis - Game Description & Game Field	6
6. WRO Double Tennis - Specific Game Rules	8
7. WRO Double Tennis - Scoring	14
8. Robot material & regulations	16
9. Game table and equipment	17
10. Ideas for simplification	19
11. Glossary	20
12. Appendix - Table of Decisive Cases	21


Updates on the general rules from 2024 to 2025
There are no significant changes in the rules from 2024 to 2025. Small adjustments were made based on the Q&A answered over the season. These changes are marked in yellow.
In addition, please note that during the season there might be clarifications or additions to the rules, which can be found in the official WRO Questions & Answers section of the WRO website. The answers are supplementary to the rules.
You can find the WRO 2025 Q&A on this page:
https://wro-association.org/competition/questions-answers/


1. General information

Introduction
In the WRO RoboSports category teams design robots that compete with robots of another team.
In a match two teams each have 2 robots on the field. The robots are coded to play the game autonomously and collaborate with each other where possible. The sport that is played by the robots changes every 4-5 years.

Focus Areas
Every WRO category and game has a special focus on learning with robots. At the WRO Double Tennis Game, students will focus on developing in the following areas:

- More advanced coding skills (repeating algorithms for a good game play).
- Communication between robots and planning collaborative actions.
- Orientation of the robot on the field in an environment with other robots that move.
- General engineering skills (building robots that can push/shoot objects of certain sizes) and advanced kinematics (omni-directional robots).
- application of imaging using cameras and sensors
- Strategy and tactics changing depending on the opponent's robot's behavior.
- Teamwork, communication, problem solving, creativity.

Learning is most important
WRO wants to inspire students around the world into STEM-related subjects and we want the students to develop their skills through playful learning in our competitions. This is why the following aspects are key to all our competition programs:
* Teachers, parents or other adults can help, guide and inspire the team, but they are not allowed to build or code/program the robot.
* Teams, coaches and judges accept our WRO Guiding Principles and WRO Ethics Code to ensure a fair and rewarding competition for all.
* 	On the competition day it is down to the teams, coaches and judges together to deliver a fun and fair event.

More information on the WRO Ethics Code can be found here: link.wro-association.org/Ethics- Code.


2. Team and Age Groups definitions

2.1. A team consists of 2 or 3 students.
2.2. A team is guided by a coach.
2.3. 1 team member and 1 coach are not considered a team and cannot participate.
2.3.1. A team may only participate in one of the WRO categories in a season.
2.4. A student may only participate in one team.
2.5. The minimum age of a coach at an international event is 18 years old.
2.6. Coaches may work with more than one team.
2.7. The age group for this category is defined as students aged 11 up to 19 years. (In season 2025: born years 2006-2014)
2.8. The maximum age indicated represents the age that the participant turns in the calendar year of the competition, not his/her age on the competition day.

3. Responsibilities and team's own work

3.1. A team should play fair and be respectful towards teams, coaches, judges and competition organizers. By competing in WRO, teams and coaches accept the WRO Guiding Principles that can be found at: link.wro-association.org/Ethics-Code.
3.2. Every team and coach need to sign the WRO Ethics Code. The organizer of the competition will define how the Ethics Code is collected and signed.
3.3. The construction and coding of the robot may be done only by the team. The task of the coach is to accompany them, help them with organizational and logistical matters and support the team in the case of questions or problems. The coach cannot be involved in the construction and programming of the robot. This applies to both the day of the competition and the preparation.
3.4. A team is not allowed to communicate in any way with people outside of the competition area while the competition is running. If communication is necessary, they should ask the permission of a judge who may allow team members to communicate with others, under a judge's supervision.
3.5. Team members are not allowed to bring and use mobile (cell) phones or any other communication device into the competition area.
3.6. Any instructions to the robot during a match can be provided only in form of the program. No data are allowed to be entered by interacting a team member/coach/people outside of the competition with the physical parts, sensors or other electronic components of the robot.
3.7. Destruction or tampering with competition courts/tables, materials, or the robots of other teams is prohibited.
3.8. It is not allowed to use a solution (hardware and / or software) that is (a.) the same or too similar to solutions sold or posted online or (b.) the same or too similar to another solution at the competition and clearly not the team's own work. This includes solutions from teams from the same institution and/or country.


3.9. If there is a suspicion in relation to rule 3.3 and 3.8, the team will be subjected to investigation and any of the consequences mentioned in 3.10 can apply. Where appropriate rule 3.10.3 may be used to prevent the team under investigation from progressing to the next competition stage, even if the team would win the competition stage where the potential rule breaking has been identified.
3.10. If any of the rules mentioned in this document are broken or violated, the judges can decide on one or more of the following consequences. Before a decision is reached, a team or individual team members may be interviewed to find out more about the possible violation of the rules. The interview can include questions about the robot or the program.
3.10.1. A Team may not be allowed to participate in a match and lose by 8:-4.
3.10.2. A team may not be allowed to participate in a game and gets 0 points, the other team gets 3 points.
3.10.3. A team may be disqualified completely from the competition.

4. Game documents and rule hierarchy

4.1. Every year, WRO publishes a new version of general rules for this category including the definitive description of the WRO Double Tennis Game. These rules are the basis for all international WRO events.
4.2. During a season, WRO may publish additional Question & Answers (Q&As) that can clarify, extend or re-define rules in game and general rule documents. Teams should read these Q&As before the competition.
4.3. The general rule document and Q&As may be different in a country due to local adaptations through the National Organizer. Teams need to inform themselves about the rules that apply in their country. For any international WRO event, only the information WRO has published is relevant. Teams that qualified for any international WRO event should inform themselves about possible differences to their local rules.
4.4. At the competition day, the following rule hierarchy applies:
4.4.1. General rule document provides the basis for the rules in this category.
4.4.2. Questions & Answers (Q&As) can override rules in game and general rule documents.
4.4.3. The judge on the competition day has the final word in any decision.

5. WRO Double Tennis - Game Description & Game Field

Each match of the challenge is for two teams of students. Each team of students prepares two robots. Both robots operate on the same half of the field and their goal is to collaborate on the common task - push all the orange balls from their half to the other team's half.
Initially each half of the field contains 4 orange balls and 1 purple ball. During the match, orange balls will be pushed from one half to another. In addition to pushing their initial orange balls, the team's robots must constantly find new orange balls delivered from the other half by the robots of the opposing team. As soon as these balls from the opposition are found the robots must plan and perform actions to push these orange balls back. The purple ball on the other hand, should stay on the own half of the game field. Orange balls are counted as 1 and purple balls as -2, and the team with the lowest number at the end wins that match.
A match takes maximum 2 minutes and at the end of the match the winner determined by the number of orange and purple balls on each game field.
At RoboSports, judges have a more active role as they need to decide on certain situations during the match as well. This is part of playing sports.
The following graphic shows the game field with the game objects.

Figure 1. Detailed game field.


The game field consists of two halves. Each half contains one ramp. A barrier separates each half.

The game field halves
Figure 2a. Two halves on the game field.
There are eight positions for the balls on every half: two randomizable positions for balls on each black line. Two intersections of the black lines are used as starting positions of the robots.








Balls positions
	
  Robot start zones






Figure 2b. Start positions for the balls and robots

6. WRO Double Tennis - Specific Game Rules

WRO Double Tennis Tournament
6.1. The tournament consists of:
6.1.1. Practice time: During practice time, the contestants may practice in their team area, may queue with their robots to have one practice game on the game field, or may take measurements in the game field in so far as this does not interfere with other teams' practice. Teams are allowed to make changes to the program or to adjust the robots mechanically.
6.1.2. Check Time: During check time and right before the start of a game, the robots will be checked based on the requirements for robot materials, as mentioned in section 3 above. If a robot does not pass the check, the judges may provide a team up to 3 minutes to address issues found. Only one three-minute period can be provided by judges for a team as part of the check. If, eventually, one of the team's robots does not pass the robot check by the judges, the team will not be allowed to participate in the game and as a consequence loses all three matches of that game 8:-4. The winning team achieves the total points of 3 for that game. The incompliant team will not be disqualified entirely from the competition as they have time to correct their robot before the next game.
6.1.3. Games: A game consist of three matches of the same two teams in a row.
6.2. A typical competition day may look like this:
6.2.1. Opening Ceremony
6.2.2. 60 minutes practice time (first time slot)
6.2.3. Games. During the game time, teams can modify the robots or practice on other tables (if available) when they are not competing.
6.3. Each team plays every other team or as many other teams as possible (each team always play the same number of games during the competition). Pairing of the teams is random. For example, if there are 10 teams, 45 games will be played. Another tournament scheme (for example, the Swiss-system tournament https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swiss-system_tournament or the double elimination tournament https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-elimination_tournament) can be used for the International Final.
6.4. Teams should prepare and bring all the equipment, software and portable computers they need for the tournament.
6.5. Teams are not allowed to share portable computers and/or the program for the robots on the competition day.
6.6. On the day of the competition, there will be a minimum of 60 minutes of practice time before the start of the first match.
6.7. Teams cannot touch the designated competition areas before the start of the first practice time slot is announced.
6.8. Each team must work during practice time in their specified place until the check time, when the team's robots must be placed in a designated area (checking area). No mechanisms or programs may be modified after this time.
6.9. Robots may take part in the game only after they have passed the check.
6.10. The team cannot exceed 90 seconds for preparation as soon as they are called by judges for participating in a particular game. If a team does not show up 90 seconds


after announcement of the judges, it loses that match of the game by 8:-4. If the team fails to show up for an additional 90 seconds for the second match, it loses the whole game with all three matches 8:-4.
6.11. After the end of a particular game, the practice time for two teams continues. Should they wish, they may modify their robots and programs until the judges call for the next game. After this call the check time for such robots starts again.

Starting Configuration:
6.12. After check time and before the match starts, the team is ready to start the robot with one push of a button on the robot. Before this robot start, the location of the balls on the field is determined. The following procedure can be used for this:

1. Toss a coin to determine the location of the first orange ball. Heads mean the ball location A (see the figure 3a), tails mean the ball location B.
2. Repeat the coin toss three more times for the rest of orange balls on one half of the field.

Figure 3a. Possible balls' locations




3. Toss the coin two more times to determine the line used for the purple ball. The purple ball is placed on the free position on this line.


Figure 3b. Possible positions of purple ball


4. The arrangement of the balls is applied to the other half of the field so one half of the field is a rotational symmetry of the other.

Figure 4. Ball locations on one half are reflected locations of the ball location on another half


Matches - Start Configuration:

6.13. Every match is maximum two minutes in length.
6.14. Each of two team's robots are located in the starting zones on one half of the field with every robot on the field being completely within the zones and no part of any robot is projecting beyond its zone. One starting zone must contain only one robot.






Starting zones for robots of one team


Starting zones for robots of another team




Figure 5. Starting zones of the robots
6.15. The position of the robot in the starting zone must be so that the projection of the robot on the game mat is completely within the start zone.
6.16. Teams can start a match with only one robot. In this case the team will be able to use only that one robot for that match.
6.17. Physical adjustments can be made and team members can choose the one program they want to run (this is part of the preparation time); however, teams are not allowed to enter data to a program by changing positions or orientation of the robot's parts or to make any sensor calibrations on the robot. Teams may not enter data by changing the configuration of the switches, if any. If a team does enter data through physical adjustments, it will be disqualified for that game.
6.18. The robots should then be in a waiting state. Waiting for a Start button to be pressed. A separately installed Push Button can be considered as the Start button. Only one Start button is allowed.
6.19. Judges proceed with the randomization and then give the signal to start the robots. The starting buttons are pressed and the timing for the attempt begins simultaneously, after which the robots will commence their attempt to win the match.
6.20. If a robot is motionless and does not leave the starting zones 10 seconds after the start signal, the judge will remove the robot from the field and the robot must stay off the field the full match. If both robots of a team are not moving 10 seconds after the start signal, the team will lose that match immediately with 8:-4 result.
6.21. If the robot overturns, is unable to move or has other malfunctions, it will be left on the field until the end of the match. Team can decide to remove the robot from the field with the permission of the judge. Removing both robots from the field results in a lost match with 8:-4 result.


Matches - During the Match:

6.22. Robots must be autonomous and it participates in the matches entirely by itself.
6.23. The robot is allowed to leave any parts of the robot that are not containing main units (controller, motors, sensors) on the field, if needed. As soon as the part is touching the field or its game element and is no longer touching the robot it is considered a free element not part of the robot.
Free parts will be removed from the field by the judges as soon as possible. If the robots of the causing team are disturbed by the free parts or the judges (during removal), this will be ignored - the match continues. Any balls that are delivered to the opposing team's game field (on purpose or by accident) by the free part will be put back in the corners on the game field of the team that created the free part.
If the free part touches the other team's robot or game field the match is stopped and the team with the robot that left the part on the field loses the match by 8:-4.
6.24. Participants are not allowed to interfere with or assist the robots. This includes entering data to a program by giving visual, audio or any other signals to the robots during the match. Team that violates this rule loses the match by 8:-4.
6.25. The robot is allowed to push, kick and throw balls.
6.26. The robot is allowed to drive on to the ramp on its field half.
6.27. The robot is not allowed to touch the ramp's red area on its field half. If any part of the robot touches the red area, the match is stopped and the team with the robot that violated the rule loses the match by 8:-4.


Forbidden areas
Allowed areas
Figure 6. A buffer zone (red area) on the ramp cannot be visited by the robots
6.28. In case a robot touches one of the opponents' robots the match is stopped and judges decide if it was intentional or not. If it was by accident, the number of the balls on each half is calculated to get the score. If it was on purpose, by any team, that team will lose the match by 8:-4. If a robot permanently reaches over to the other team's game field (e.g. robot stays in one place and is levitating an arm above the opponent's game field),


that would be counted as looking for contact on purpose.
6.29. A team's robot is not allowed to touch the surface (mat and the ramp's slope) on the opponent's half of the field. If such situation happens the match is stopped and the team that violated the rule will lose the match by 8:-4. The robot is allowed to touch the face of the ramp which is perpendicular to the main plane of the game field.






Untouchable areas



Touchable areas
Figure 7. Areas that cannot be touched on the opponent's field half
6.30. The situation when both robots of one team operate simultaneously with more than 4 orange balls at the same time is not allowed. Operating a ball means intentionally altering the ball's movement, keeping the ball motionless or having the ball at least partly surrounded by parts of one or two robots. Accidental contacts with a ball are not counted towards operating (e.g. ball bounces at the robot). If such a situation happens the teams have 10 seconds time to change it otherwise the match will be stopped and the number of balls on each half of the field will be calculated to get the score, the judges will count down 10 seconds.
6.31. If an orange ball goes out of the game field, it will be returned to the half of the team that throw the ball out, and judges will put it in one of the corners (in any situation). If a purple ball goes out of the game field, it will be returned to the half of the opposing team and judges will put it in one of the corners (in any situation).

Matches - End of a match (Refer to the attached table for more details):

6.32. The match ends and the time is stopped if any of the following conditions occurs (see table in the attachment for further details):
6.32.1. The match timer expires.
6.32.2. The robot of one team touches the robot of another team or the surface (mat and the ramp's slope) on the opponent's half of the field.
6.32.3. The robot changes its size as so dimensions exceed 200x200 mm and 200 mm in height. In case the dimensions of the robot exceed the allowed size because of a malfunction or accident the team can decide to remove the damaged robot immediately from the field and go on with only one robot.
6.32.4. If all balls are situated on the same half of the game field after the first 30 seconds of the match, the match is stopped and the score is counted. Judges will announce when the 30 second mark is reached.
6.32.5. Any team member touches a robot, a ball, the field mat, the ramp, the barrier or the wall. Only exception is if a team member removes a damaged robot from the field


(6.21.).
6.32.6. The robot drives outside of the game field.
6.32.7. The robot damages a ball.
6.32.8. The robot or team member damages the field or a game element.
6.32.9. Stop by agreement: if both robots of both teams get stuck in a program loop which does not lead to any further meaningful action, the two teams can decide to end the match and the scores are calculated. Important that to do this the clear consent of both teams are needed.
6.32.10. If both robots are removed from the game field (e.g. as damaged robots).
6.33. Team members must stop their robots when the judge signals that the match is stopped. The robots must stay on the field till the teams are given permission by the judge to take them off. Team members must not move the balls either from one half of the field to another or outside of the field. If a team violates the rule, they will forfeit the match by 8:- 4.
6.34. A ball (or balls) pushed, kicked or thrown by the robots after the judge's signal that the match is stopped must be returned to those halves of the field where the robots moved them from. If there is uncertainty as to whether a ball was moved before or after the signal, the judge is allowed to return it back to that half of the field where the robot responsible for the ambiguous movement of the ball is located.
6.35. The judges will base their decisions on the rules and fair game play. They have the final decision on the competition day. Please be aware that, as this is a team versus team competition, should a dispute happen the decision of a judge could result in one of the teams losing.


7. WRO Double Tennis - Scoring

7.1. The official score will be calculated at the end of each match by the judges. The winner in the group of two teams is identified after three matches.
7.2. The ball score is calculated for both teams based on the number of balls on their half. Orange balls are counted as +1. Purple balls are counted as -2. The ball score for each team can be between -4 and +8.
7.3. The winner of a particular match is decided as follows:
7.3.1. ball score on the half of one team (T1) - BT1
7.3.2. ball score on the half of the other team (T2) - BT2
7.3.3. if T1 has a lower ball score it wins (BT1 < BT2), if T2 has a lower ball score it wins (BT1 > BT2), if they have an equal ball score, they are tied (BT1 = BT2).
7.4. If a ball is not in contact with any robot, the position of the ball on the field defines which team it belongs to. If a ball is in contact with a robot, the balls count towards the robot's team.
7.5. If the match is stopped due to the actions of a member of one of the teams (e.g., a team member touches a robot), the team which this participant belongs to loses the match by 8:-4.
7.6. The team which won the most matches of the game wins and gets 3 points, the other team gets 0. Winning 2 matches is an obvious win, but also if a team wins 1 match and the other two is a tie then the team wins the game.


7.7. If all three matches are a tie, then the game result is a tie as well with both teams getting 1 point. If each team won one of the matches and one match is a tie, the result of the game is a tie.
7.8. The team must verify and sign the score sheet after the game, unless they have a fair complaint.
7.9. The teams' rankings for tournament (with teams in a table) are based on the sum of each team's points received in the games. If two teams have the same sum of points the following criteria are then considered (listed in the priority order):
7.9.1. number of violations: the team with fewer violations has a better ranking, more details on possible violations you can find in the chapter 12, the table of violations and end of matches situation.
7.9.2. The sum of the balls (orange counts as +1 and purple as -2) / ball score on the opponent's half of the field in each match: across all the matches each of the drawn team plays, the team whose opponents have, collectively, got the greater number of balls wins.
7.9.3. If the ranks of two teams are still the same, judges can consider to have additional set of matches until one team has two wins more (in additional matches) than another team.
7.10. If the tournament mode uses (in addition to a table) a knock-out mode, it is necessary to determine a winner for each game. If a game would result into a tie because of match results, then the winner is determined by violations first (as in 7.9.1) and by ball score secondly (as in 7.9.2). If the two teams are still ranked the same, one or more additional matches needs to be played to determine the winning team of the game.
7.11. Video or photo proofs will not be accepted or discussed.

8. Robot material & regulations

8.1. Teams must build two robots. Each robot's dimensions must not exceed 200x200 mm and 200 mm in height during the match. Each robot has a maximum weight of 1.2 kg.
8.2. The following controllers are allowed:
8.2.1. LEGO(r)-Controllers:
- LEGO(r) Education MINDSTORMS(r) EV3 (45544)
- LEGO(r) Education SPIKE(tm) PRIME (45678)
- LEGO(r) MINDSTORMS(r) EV3 (31313)
- LEGO(r) Robot Inventor (51515)
8.2.2. Official Arduino Controllers https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Arduino_boards_and_compatible_systems (only controllers from the "Official" and "Superseded" section are allowed)
8.3. There is no limitation for number of motors, sensors and cameras (one or multiple) used in the robot.
8.4. Only normal DC motors are allowed. Brushless DC electric motor (BLCD motors), Solenoids and Linear motors are not allowed.
8.5. Teams can use Bluetooth or Wi-Fi for their robots' communication during the matches.
8.6. Any kind of communication between robots and any other device apart from the team's other robot is forbidden. The judges can inspect the code and the robots in order to confirm that it is not used by any means.
8.7. Teams can also use processing boards as part of the camera but both the camera and the board can only process the image. It is not allowed for these devices to handle any other logic. Teams can also use small displays on their robots at all times as far as it fits in the dimensions of 200 x 200 x 200 mm.
8.8. Only one battery / battery pack is allowed per robot. Cameras and processing boards are not allowed to have their own batteries.
8.9. Additional optical elements like lens kits or mirrors can be used together with cameras.
8.10. The use of SD cards to store programs is allowed. SD cards must be inserted before check time and may not be removed until the next practice time starts.
8.11. Any materials can be used to build the robot.
8.12. Teams should bring enough spare parts. In the case of any accidents or equipment malfunction, WRO (and/or organizing committee) is not responsible for their maintenance or replacement.
8.13. The teams can bring the robots assembled.
8.14. Contestants may prepare the program for the robots beforehand. Multiple programs can be used for different strategies, but the program to be used in a given match has to be picked before the randomization of the balls. It is not allowed to enter data (like the balls position) by the use of different programs. Judges are allowed to check programs.
8.15. Control software can be written in any programming language - there are no requirements to use a specific language.
8.16. Teams can only have a maximum of two controllers (one per robot) with themselves in the competition area.
8.17. Pneumatic systems can be used and filled with air during practice. If the pump is part of the robot, the system can be filled by hand between matches as well.
8.18. It is not allowed to build flying robots.


8.19. The usage of boost converters is not allowed.

9. Game table and equipment

Game Table & Field
9.1. In this category, the robots play double tennis. Every field consists of a game table (an even ground with borders) and a printed mat that is put into the game table.
9.2. The dimensions of a WRO mat in any age group are 2362 mm x 1143 mm. All Game Tables are the same size, though a tolerance of +/- 5mm in length and width is given. The official height of the borders of a game table is 100mm, higher borders can be used as well. The borders are a bit higher than those of the RoboMission category tables, but in every other respect they are the same size. Due to the use of the balls, the higher borders are necessary for a better game play. The higher borders can be added (e.g. attached to) a RoboMission table. The thickness of the walls is not defined.
9.3. The inner color of the walls is white. The outer color of the walls is not defined.
9.4. The game mat must be printed with a matt finish/overlay (without reflecting colors!). The preferred printing material is a PVC tarp with around 510 g/m� (Frontlit). The material of the game mat should not be too soft (e.g. no mesh banner material).
9.5. The width of the thin black lines is 20 mm, the width of the thick black lines is 60 mm.
9.6. The diameter of the ball location areas is 50 mm. The color of the line is orange (RGB: 250, 204, 0).
9.7. The size of robot starting zones is 200 x 200 mm. The color of the dashed lines surrounding the zones is green (RGB: 133, 188, 87).
9.8. Two ramps 300 x 563 x 50 mm are fixed on the field. The material of the ramps is wood, laminated chipboard or styrofoam. The main color of the ramp slope is green (RGB: 133, 188, 87). The width of the blue (RGB: 0, 112, 192) area is 100 mm. The width of the red (255, 0, 0) area is 50 mm. The color of the rest of the ramp is white.
9.9. The barrier size is 1562 x 17 x 50 mm. It is rigidly fixed to the field.
















Figure 8. The game field map with sizes


Balls

9.10. Every ball is a standard ping pong ball with a diameter of 40mm.
9.11. The color of the balls are orange and purple.
9.12. 8 orange balls and 2 purple balls are required per game field.
9.13. The national and regional competition could use balls of another color, but they must be different from the other elements of the field. The event organizers could consider changing the colors of the field mat in order to make the balls distinguishable. They need to inform the teams about the changes from the beginning.

10. Ideas for simplification
Note: As mentioned at the beginning, these rules are made for all international WRO events. National Organizers can decide to change the rules for local needs. Here, are two ideas that could make the game easier.
Idea 1 - Larger Game Objects
The competition with ping pong balls mostly focuses on the robots with cameras. Some national organizers could consider to adapt the challenge for the robots without cameras by using LEGO(r) plastic 52 mm balls (Element ID: 4156530) or tennis balls with the diameter 65- 68 mm.
Idea 2 - Simplified game field
There is the option of having the game field without the ramps:


Figure 9. Field without the ramps

Figure 10. Field without the ramps but with barriers

11. Glossary

Check Time
During the check time, the judge will take a look at the robot and check the measurements (e.g. with a cube or a folding rule) and other technical requirements. A check needs to be done before every game.
Coach
A person assisting a team in the process to learn different robotics aspects, teamwork, problem solving, time management, etc. The role of the coach is not to win the competition for the team, but to teach them and guide them through the problem identification and in discovering ways to solve the competition challenge.
Competition organizer
The competition organizer is the entity that hosts the competition a team is visiting. This can be a local school, the National Organizer of a country that runs the National Final or a WRO Host Country together with WRO Association running the International WRO Final.
Game
A game consists of three matches of the same two teams in row. The team which won the most matches of the game wins and gets 3 points, the other team gets 0. (Refer to 7.6)
Match
Two teams play, with two robots each, a match that is scored. A team wins a match if it has a lower ball score on the own part of the field at the end of the match.
Practice Time
During the practice time, the team can test the robot on the field and the team can change mechanical aspects or the coding of the robot.
Team
In this document the word team includes the 2-3 participants (students) of a team, not the coach who should only support the team.
WRO
In this document, WRO stands for World Robot Olympiad Association Ltd., the non-profit organization running WRO world-wide and that prepares all the game and rule documents.

12. Appendix - Table of Decisive Cases


Row
Rule
Rule Description
The result of the Match/ Game
Remarks


1


3.1 ~ 3.10


Violation of Ethics Code and unfair behavior.
The violating team loses that Game 0-3 or
gets disqualified from the entire tournament depending on how serious is the violation.

      [Violation] Losing a Game means all 3 Matches have the
result of 8:-4.

2

6.1.2
If one of the team's robots does not pass the robot check by the judges, the team will not participate in that Game.

The violating team loses that Game 0-3.
      [Violation] Losing a Game means all 3 Matches have the
result of 8:-4.



3



6.10
If a team does not show up 90 seconds after announcement of the judges, it loses that match of the game by 8:-4. If the team fails to show up for an additional 90 seconds for the second match, it loses the whole game with all three matches 8:- 4.


The violating team loses the Match or the Game.

      [Violation] Losing a Game means all 3 Matches have the
result of 8:-4.

4

6.17
If a team enters data through physical adjustments, the team will not participate in that Game.

The violating team loses that Game 0-3.
      [Violation] Losing a Game means all 3 Matches have the
result of 8:-4.

5

6.20
If both robots of a team are not moving 10 seconds after the start signal, the team will lose that match immediately.
The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.


6

6.21
Removing both robots from the field results in a lost match with 8:-4 result.
The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.




7



6.23
If the part left by one robot prevents balls to be delivered from one half of the game field to another, or the part left by one robot is moved to the half dedicated for another team's robots, the Match is stopped and the team with the robot that left the part on the field loses that Match.



The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.



[Violation]


8


6.24
Entering data to a program by giving visual, audio or any other signals to the robots during the match is a violation and the violating team loses that Match.

The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.


[Violation]

9

6.27
If any part of the robot touches the red area on the ramp, the Match is stopped
and the team with the robot that violated the rule loses that Match.

The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.

[Violation]




10


6.28
If the robot of one team touches the other team's robot by accident, the match will be stopped and scored as is. The judges have to decide if the touch was by accident after taking all circumstances into consideration.


The match will be stopped and scored.



11


6.28
If the robot of one team touches the other team's robot on purpose, the violating team loses that Match. The judges have to decide if the touch was on purpose after taking all circumstances into consideration.


The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.


[Violation]

12

6.29
A team's robot touches any surface (mat, the ramp's slope, wall) on the opponent's half of the field.
The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.

[Violation]

13

6.30
The situation when both robots of one team operate simultaneously with more than 4 orange balls at the same time for
more than 10 seconds is not allowed.

The match will be stopped and scored.




14



6.32.1



The match timer expires.


The teams have to stop their robots when the judge calls out STOP. Then scoring takes place.
All balls that are passed over to the opponent's game field after call of the judge must be placed back to where it was when the judge called STOP.

15

6.32.2
The robot of one team touches the robot of another team or the surface (mat, the ramp's slope, wall) on the opponent's half of the field.
This is considered a violation and the violating team loses the Match 8:-4.

[Violation]

16

6.32.3
The robot changes its size as so dimensions exceed 200 x 200 x 200 mm.
The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.

[Violation]





17





6.32.4
After the first 30 seconds of the match is passed, there is a situation when all orange balls are on the same half of the game field for more than 10 seconds. The balls loaded to the robots on this half are counted as well. This means that the teams must not control all in-game balls for more than 10 seconds, and the judge announce this situation by counting down 10 seconds and the violating team loses the Match 8:-4.





The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.

18
6.32.5
Any team member touches a robot, a ball, the field mat, the ramp, the barrier or the wall.
The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.
[Violation]




19


6.32.6


The robot drives outside of the game field.
If one robot drives outside the game field, the match continues. If both robots do it, it is considered a violation and the violating team loses the match 8:-4.


[Violation]
20
6.32.7
The robot damages a ball.
The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.
[Violation]
21
6.32.8
The robot or team member damages the field or a game element.
The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.
[Violation]




22




6.32.9
Stop by agreement: if both robots of both teams get stuck in a program loop which does not lead to any further meaningful action, the two teams can decide to end the match and the scores are calculated. Important that to do this the clear consent of both teams are needed.



The match will be stopped and scored.




23



6.32.10



Both robots of one team are removed from the field.



The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.




24



6.33


A team member removes robots or balls from the field without the permission of the judges.



The violating team loses that Match 8:-4.



[Violation]
25
7.9.1
The Violations in this table should be taken into consideration for the ranking.
